Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek 2026 | Trek India’s Finest Alpine Meadows Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
ALI BEDNI BUGYAL TREK
India's grandest twin alpine meadows
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have expert Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Lohajung: Lohajung is the home ground of Indiahikes , where the seed of our vision was sown. Today, our cosy Community Campus welcomes you here with Mt Nanda Ghunti on the horizon.
The Oak Forests towards Ghairoli Patal: Trek through an ancient forest of Giant Oaks. Near Wan’s Latu Devta Temple, you’ll see tree trunks, wide enough to need five people holding hands to wrap around them.
Walk on India’s Grandest Meadows: Ali and Bedni bugyal are our favourite meadows . Lush green in summer, a golden hue in autumn, and snow-draped in winter, these meadows are postcard-perfect in any season.
Close-Up Views of Big Mountains: At Ali and Bedni Bugyal, you’re up close and personal with Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti. These are 7,000 and 6,000-metre summits rising before you from bottom to top.
India's Grandest Twin Alpine Meadows
At Indiahikes, we have seen and explored multiple high-altitude meadows in Uttarakhand, Himachal and even Kashmir. But Ali Bedni Bugyal stands out due to its sheer grandeur and big mountain views.
The sight of Mt. Trishul and Mt. Nanda Ghunti jutting right out of the meadows is a sight to behold. Jutting out doesn’t mean you see the tops of these mountains, you see the entire face, almost 6,000-7,000 feet of it, rising right in front of you! It’s a sight so powerful that it leaves trekkers speechless. “I have seen trekkers standing here with tears in their eyes, overwhelmed by the beauty, ” says our founder, Arjun Majumdar.
Did you know we run Summer Camps on the Ali Bedni Bugyal trek? If you have children aged 10-14, this is an ideal programme to help them gain confidence and resilience. Read more here.
play video
You start the trek through dense forests by hopping across the Neel Ganga stream. In Spring, these forests are full of blooming rhododendrons. From age-old cypress to ancient oaks, the forests almost feel like a secret portal to a distant past. A trek amidst them for one whole day till you reach the beautiful clearing of Gehroli Patal. From Gehroli Patal, you climb gradually beyond the treeline. Nothing prepares you for the sight that lies ahead when you enter the bugyal. The surprise of finding yourself in a vast, open landscape after an exhilarating climb through dense forests is unbeatable. Trishul and Nanda Ghunti Peaks stand like silent sentinels in the backdrop. When you climb to Bedni Top, the highest point on the Bedni Bugyal, the iconic Chaukhamba massif opens up before you. The views are breathtaking.
Read more
expand overview
You start the trek through dense forests by hopping across the Neel Ganga stream. In Spring, these forests are full of blooming rhododendrons. From age-old cypress to ancient oaks, the forests almost feel like a secret portal to a distant past. A trek amidst them for one whole day till you reach the beautiful clearing of Gehroli Patal. From Gehroli Patal, you climb gradually beyond the treeline. Nothing prepares you for the sight that lies ahead when you enter the bugyal. The surprise of finding yourself in a vast, open landscape after an exhilarating climb through dense forests is unbeatable. Trishul and Nanda Ghunti Peaks stand like silent sentinels in the backdrop. When you climb to Bedni Top, the highest point on the Bedni Bugyal, the iconic Chaukhamba massif opens up before you. The views are breathtaking.
And then, the next day, you walk on Ali Bugyal. It’s a straight walk along a meadowy ridge. The grass is soft under your feet. It tempts you to walk barefoot. You could go on for hours. On a clear day, Trishul, Nanda Ghunti, Mrigthuni, Maiktoli, and other iconic peaks walk beside you. They stay with you all along the ridge.
Two back-to-back days on Grand Meadows, with towering mountains for company — it’s an experience that stays with you.
But what many do not know is that this is also a trek steeped in history. It is part of the legendary Roopkund trail. While Roopkund is no longer accessible, Ali Bedni Bugyal remains the closest we can get to the iconic route.
At Indiahikes, we believe Ali Bedni is the grandest meadow trek in the country. It deserves a top spot on every trekker’s bucket list. It is also a perfect introduction to trekking in the Himalayas for beginners. The views and experience far outweigh the effort it takes.
5 Things We Love About the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
1) The Ali Bedni Meadows Across Seasons
The meadows of Ali and Bedni are a highlight in themselves, even without the mountain views. In spring and early summer, snow melts to reveal fresh green carpets. By June, wildflowers burst into bloom, painting the landscape with colour. By autumn, the meadows turn golden, glowing in shades of ochre and orange. Trek here in different seasons, and it feels like an entirely new trail each time.
2) Mt. Trishul and Mt. Nanda Ghunti
You see Mt. Trishul for the first time from a clearing behind your Gehroli Patal campsite. It’s a distant view, yet a riveting view that sticks with you. As you approach Bedni Kund, you see the mountains growing in size, to suddenly appear right in front of you. Their entire 6,000-7,000 feet face towering over the meadows. Watching the sunset over Mt. Trishul is an unforgettable experience.
3) The Neelganga Stream
You see the Neelganga stream on the very first day of your trek. It winds through the forest on the way to Gehroli Patal. The water is icy cold and crystal clear. Washing your face here feels refreshing. You see the stream again on your way back. It’s one of those quiet moments in the trek that you’ll remember for a long time.
4) Unforgettable Sunrises and Sunsets at Abin Kharak
On this trek, we camp at a special spot near Ali Bugyal called Abin Kharak. This campsite is just off the Ali Bugyal. It allows you to step into the open fields easily. Watching the sunrise and sunset from here is a rewarding experience. Few campsites offer such magical views.
5) Trekking Through Ancient and Dense Forests
The oak and rhododendron forests on this trek are some of the densest you'll see. Many of the trees are over a thousand years old. Near the Latu Devta temple, the trees are so large that it takes 5 - 6 people holding hands to wrap around one. The Gehroli Patal forest section looks like a manicured oak forest, with trees spaced out evenly, as if someone planned them. And the forests on your way back to the Tithak campsite are exactly the opposite. They are as dense, raw and wild with numerous small streams crisscrossing the trail. In many places, sunlight filters through the leaves, creating beautiful angles. It’s a photographer’s delight to capture these enchanting forests.
The Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek has almost everything you expect on a Himalayan trek— from grand mountain views to dense forest trails, stream crossings, unending meadows and beautiful campsites. It was on the Ali Bedni Meadows where the idea of Indiahikes was born. And that’s one more reason why it holds a special place in all of our hearts.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Ali Bedni Bugyal : Take on the adventure of trekking to Ali Bedni Bugyal, India's grandest twin alpine meadows, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Lohajung Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Lohajung on Day 1 to dinner at Lohajung on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3000 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Ali Bedni Bugyal - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Ali Bedni Bugyal trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung
Drive distance: 270 km | Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Pick up Time: 5 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Lohajung
Reach Lohajung; a 10-11 hours drive from Rishikesh. Transport will be arranged from Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh at 5.00 am.
We arrange transport for trekkers from Rishikesh to Lohajung . The cost is Rs.1500/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Drive from Lohajung to Wan. Trek to Gehroli Patal
Trek Distance : 6.3 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude gain: 7,550 ft to 10,350 ft
Day 3
Trek from Gehroli Patal to Abin Kharak via Bedni Top
Trek Distance: 5.6 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude gain: 10,350 ft to 11,145 ft via 12,550 ft
Day 4
Trek from Abin Kharak to Tithak via Ali Top
Trek Distance: 5.7 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude loss: 11,145 ft to 10,515 ft via 11,600 ft
Day 5
Trek from Tithak to Wan. Drive to Lohajung
Trek Distance: 7 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude loss: 10,515 ft to 7,550 ft | Drive Distance: 6 km | Drive Distance: 35 mins
Day 6
Drive from Lohajung to Rishikesh
Drive distance: 270 km | Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Drop off Time: 7 pm
Reach Rishikesh; a 10-11 hours drive from Lohajung to Rishikesh. Transport will be organized by Indiahikes. The cost is Rs.1500/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pickup Day): Drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung
Duration: 10-11 hours | Drive distance: 270 km
Altitude : 7,550 ft
The drive: You drive along mountain roads, through forests. You also get glimpses of the Garhwal mountains in the distance on a clear day.
Lohajung is the base camp for the Brahmatal trek. A great way to reach here is from Rishikesh. The drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung is picturesque. You drive through Devprayag, Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag, the confluence of Alakananda with Bhagirathi, Madakini and Pindari rivers respectively. You drive along mountain roads, and through forests. You also get glimpses of the Garhwal mountains in the distance on a clear day.
Once you reach Lohajung, you find yourself face to face with the beautiful Nanda Ghunti peak. If you reach before sunset, the colours of the peak will enthral you.
Lohajung is at the centre of 12-15 nearby villages. There are a couple of local stores where you can buy jackets, hand gloves, caps, shoes etc. if need be. However, it is advised that you carry all the required things for the trek beforehand and not rely on these shops. You will have a mobile network in most parts of Lohajung.
Read More
Lohajung is the base camp for the Brahmatal trek. A great way to reach here is from Rishikesh. The drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung is picturesque. You drive through Devprayag, Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag, the confluence of Alakananda with Bhagirathi, Madakini and Pindari rivers respectively. You drive along mountain roads, and through forests. You also get glimpses of the Garhwal mountains in the distance on a clear day.
Once you reach Lohajung, you find yourself face to face with the beautiful Nanda Ghunti peak. If you reach before sunset, the colours of the peak will enthral you.
Lohajung is at the centre of 12-15 nearby villages. There are a couple of local stores where you can buy jackets, hand gloves, caps, shoes etc. if need be. However, it is advised that you carry all the required things for the trek beforehand and not rely on these shops. You will have a mobile network in most parts of Lohajung.
Lohajung, as the locals say, is the place where Goddess Parvati had a war ( Jung ) with the demon, Lohasur. Hence, the name translates to ‘War with Lohasur.’
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Drive from Lohajung to Wan. Trek to Gehroli Patal
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 6.3 km
Altitude gain: 7,550 ft to 10,350 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. This day is full of ascent from Wan to Gehroli Patal
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. You will cross streams intermittently where you can refill your water bottles.
You’ll start by taking a vehicle from Lohajung to Wan. It’s a drive of about 45 mins.
The initial trail from Wan is cemented through a cluster of houses. 15 minutes into your trek, you will find a cluster of centuries-old Cypress trees. It would take four people to circumvent the tree! Try hugging it.
From here, there are two trails you can spot. One goes straight ahead to the ridge. The second one acts as a deviation from the Latu Devta temple. Latu Devta is a local deity, who is believed to protect the area. The mountain folk pay obeisance to him before ascending higher on the Nanda Devi Jat Yatra. Ring the temple bell here for a safe trek before going back to the ascending trail to the ridge – Ranaka Dhar. It takes 30-45 minutes to ascend from Wan to Ranaka Dhar. At Ranaka Dhar, take in the view of Lohajung, Wan and the valley below!
Read More
You’ll start by taking a vehicle from Lohajung to Wan. It’s a drive of about 45 mins.
The initial trail from Wan is cemented through a cluster of houses. 15 minutes into your trek, you will find a cluster of centuries-old Cypress trees. It would take four people to circumvent the tree! Try hugging it.
From here, there are two trails you can spot. One goes straight ahead to the ridge. The second one acts as a deviation from the Latu Devta temple. Latu Devta is a local deity, who is believed to protect the area. The mountain folk pay obeisance to him before ascending higher on the Nanda Devi Jat Yatra. Ring the temple bell here for a safe trek before going back to the ascending trail to the ridge – Ranaka Dhar. It takes 30-45 minutes to ascend from Wan to Ranaka Dhar. At Ranaka Dhar, take in the view of Lohajung, Wan and the valley below!
From here, it is a short descent to the iconinc Neel Ganga. The bridge on Neel Ganga is an idyllic location to take a breather. Trees overhang the river and the water trips and fall over boulders in the shade. The water here is cool and refreshing.
From here begins the beautiful continuous ascent to the first campsite, Gehroli Patal. The trail now winds through Oak and Rhododendron forests and the path is strewn with dry leaves that crunch and crackle beneath your trekking shoes. There are walnut, pear, Himalayan roses and other flora you can find on this climb. You may even spot birds like a flycatcher, and magpies. Keep a lookout.
This is a trek of about 3 hours that brings you to a clearing with a green trekker’s hut and the welcome sight of Trishul. This is Gehroli Patal.
On a clear day, you get astounding views of Mt Trishul commandeering over the area. Set up camp here.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Gehroli Patal to Abin Kharak via Bedni Top
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance: 5.70 km
Altitude gain: 10,350 ft to 11,145 ft via 12,550 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Short climb with rolling meadows followed by a slightly steep ascent to Bedni Top and a gradual descent to Abin Kharak.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. No water sources on the way.
Start your day with a climb through the oak and Rhododendron forest. The trail takes a steep ascent and crosses the tree line, leading you straight to Bedni Bugyal. Far ahead, hundreds of meters is the famous Bedni Kund.
From here, just 800 metres away is the highest point on the trek, the Bedni Top. You get the best views from the top. Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti appear right in front of you.
The weather fluctuates in these parts and you can have moments of wild sunshine followed by anxious cloud cover. Keep your raincoat handy. Sometimes it rains for a few minutes leaving you frustrated, at times it could rain for a few hours.
Read More
Start your day with a climb through the oak and Rhododendron forest. The trail takes a steep ascent and crosses the tree line, leading you straight to Bedni Bugyal. Far ahead, hundreds of meters is the famous Bedni Kund.
From here, just 800 metres away is the highest point on the trek, the Bedni Top. You get the best views from the top. Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti appear right in front of you.
The weather fluctuates in these parts and you can have moments of wild sunshine followed by anxious cloud cover. Keep your raincoat handy. Sometimes it rains for a few minutes leaving you frustrated, at times it could rain for a few hours.
From Bedni Top, descend down to the main trail. You need to stick to this main trail. This is the trail which takes one to the famous trek of Roopkund.
The opposite side is Ali Bugyal and takes the gradual descent. Takes a sharp turn on the ledge hugging the mountains.
Now leisurely walk your way to Ali Bugyal, 2 km away and more or less at the same level.
Clouds drift in from below, glide over the ridge and slide down either side, all in a slow, swift motion. You watch countless horses grazing on the bounty of nature. Foals tearing themselves across the turf in an uninhibited abandon, just being themselves.
From Ali Bugyal, Abin Kharak campsite is on the left side of the ridge and in a depression in the bugyal. Stay the night here.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Abin Kharak to Tithak via Ali Top
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 5.7 km
Altitude loss: 11,145 ft to 10,515 ft via 11,600 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. A level walk on an undulating meadow to begin with and gradual descent through the forest section.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. You will cross streams intermittently where you can refill your water bottles.
Take some time in the morning to soak in the mesmerizing sight of the undulating meadows of Ali Bugyal. If you are tempted to take off your shoes and allow the feel of the carpet on your toes, just go ahead and do it!
You are on the top of a ridge that spreads in every direction. Acres and acres of green meadow scooped out of the mountainside.
Today's trek is all about exploring Abin Bugyal and reaching Tithak.
Read More
Take some time in the morning to soak in the mesmerizing sight of the undulating meadows of Ali Bugyal. If you are tempted to take off your shoes and allow the feel of the carpet on your toes, just go ahead and do it!
You are on the top of a ridge that spreads in every direction. Acres and acres of green meadow scooped out of the mountainside.
Today's trek is all about exploring Abin Bugyal and reaching Tithak.
Climb up for about 200 metres from your campsite and you'll come across stone huts. To start off with the best views for the day, climb up the small mound right in front of you. As you reach the top, you’ll see Mt. Chaukhamba standing tall in the distance. There’s no way you’ll miss it — it has a striking, unmistakable shape that sets it apart from every other peak around.
Take a left and keep walking on the bugyal. On either side of you, the thick forest stretches endlessly — layer after layer of trees. But don’t get pulled in just yet. Keep walking on the undulating meadows ahead. For the next 2 km, it’s just you and these vast open grasslands. You’ve probably never seen meadows this wide, this endless. It almost feels like they go on forever.
When you reach Ali Top, you are at the highest point of the day. Look around at the peaks near and far. You will be taking the same route you came on to go to Tithak. This time, Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti stand infront of you. This is one of the most picturesque trail that we have come across. If the weather is on your side, you can effortlessly click some pictures that can be put up on a photo frame.
Walk for 2 km to reach the shepherd's hut; your starting point. From here, take the ledge on your left and in about 400 metres, you enter the forest.
Walk slowly through this thick forest for about 2 kilometres to reach your campsite for the day- Tithak. It is a small clearing in the middle of the forest.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Tithak to Wan. Drive to Lohajung
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance : 7 km
Altitude loss: 10,515 ft to 7,550 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Starts with a descent from Didna to Ramganga river followed by an ascent to Lohajung
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. You will cross streams intermittently where you can refill your water bottles.
Today's trek starts with a steep zig-zag descent from Tithak. Trek for around 700 metres from your campsite to reach Gehroli Patal campsite. You will be taking the same trail to reach Wan.
The trail now winds through Oak and Rhododendron forests. You lose altitude quite quickly today. More than 3000 ft of descent. The trail will put stress on your knees. Be sure to carry a trek pole to ease off the strain on your legs.
You are expected to reach Lohajung by 2-3 pm.
Read More
Today's trek starts with a steep zig-zag descent from Tithak. Trek for around 700 metres from your campsite to reach Gehroli Patal campsite. You will be taking the same trail to reach Wan.
The trail now winds through Oak and Rhododendron forests. You lose altitude quite quickly today. More than 3000 ft of descent. The trail will put stress on your knees. Be sure to carry a trek pole to ease off the strain on your legs.
You are expected to reach Lohajung by 2-3 pm.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Drive from Lohajung to Rishikesh
Duration: 10-11 hours | Drive distance: 270 km
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult is the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy-Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 27.2 km in four trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,000 ft (7,550 ft to 12,550 ft). Every day will include steep ascents and descents. Several steep sections on this trek require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
On the first day of your trek, you gain nearly 3000 ft in elevation over a 6 km stretch. This is a steep climb that will test your fitness.
On Day 3, you will trek from Gehroli Patal to Abin Kharak. This involves a steep ascent before crossing the treeline at the onset of the Bedni Bugyal.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
On this trek, snowfall is a distinct possibility near Bedni Top, especially in the winter months. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths. This means fresh tracks have to be cut on the snow.
Hours of rainfall or snowfall can completely alter the trek’s dynamics. Heavy rain may flood trails and campsites or turn them into slippery slush. It can also make the Neelganga River crossing risky.
Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
From Lohajung to Wan Kharak, you ascend almost 3000 ft in one day. Stay well-hydrated to lower your risk of Acute Mountain Sickness.
Bedni Top is situated 12,550 ft above sea level and at altitudes above 10,000 ft, every trekker is susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness . It can happen to anybody- first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
In case of an emergency, medical or otherwise, the best way is to retrace your way back to Lohajung (base camp). You have to return to Wan, which has the closest motorable roadhead.
Descending to Didna village to rest and recuperate there is also an option. But you will have to trek back to Lohajung from Didna.
Closest Hospital to the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek:
There is a Primary Health Care Center in Dewal, about 30 km from the Indiahikes Lohajung Campus. However, it has very basic facilities. For more serious concerns, you need to approach the hospitals in Gopeshwar, the Headquarters of Chamoli District. It is about 120 km by road (4-hour drive) from Lohajung. Accessing the hospitals at Rudraprayag is faster since it is a downhill journey from Lohajung while Gopeshwar is an uphill drive.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Ali Bedni Bugyal in Spring (March-April)
During spring, you’ll see the last patches of snow melting away. A few bits still linger on the higher slopes. The forests around you begin to wake up after winter. Fresh green leaves appear. Bright red rhododendrons bloom along the trail, especially on the way to Gehroli Patal. You’ll also hear the forest coming alive with thrushes and barbets calling through the trees.
It’s also one of the best times for mountain views. The air stays crisp and clean. You get clear, sharp views of Mt. Trishul and Mt. Nanda Ghunti. Both stand tall in front of you, their snow-covered summits gleaming in the sun.
Ali Bedni Bugyal in Summer (May-June)
The best time to do the Ali Bedni Bugyal trek would be in summer, for lush greenery in the meadows and wildflowers growing in abundance. You see the best of this in June.
Ali Bedni Bugyal Post-Monsoon (September-November)
Another good time to do the Ali Bedni Bugyal trek is in the post-monsoon season. After the monsoon clouds are washed away, the skies are squeaky clean and you get the best views of mountains only in these months. If you’re one for photographs of big mountains in the region, choose the post-monsoon season.
Ali Bedni Bugyal in Winter (December-March)
We have 7 winter treks — and all of them are great. But the Ali Bedni winter trek is the one with the most beautiful snow cover.
In the forests, the snow settles softly under the boughs of the oaks and rhododendrons. What makes it more special on the Ali Bedni trek is that the slope faces the west. Early in the morning when you are trekking up the slope, the sun slants through the trees hitting the snow at magical angles.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Lohajung is the base camp of the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek. Lohajung is a small village located in the Chamoli district in the Garhwal Himalayas. It is around 10-11 hours by road from Rishikesh .
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5.15 am from Live Free Hostel .
Arrive in Rishikesh by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Rishikesh by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rishikesh:
How to reach Rishikesh? Rishikesh does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rishikesh is to:
Fly to Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun , which is about 1-hour away from Rishikesh
Fly to Delhi and take a train to Haridwar (30 km from Rishikesh )
Fly to Delhi and take an overnight bus to Rishikesh.
How to reach Rishikesh by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Rishikesh.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Rishikesh by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Haridwar. From Haridwar, it is just 30 km to Rishikesh.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Rishikesh by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Rishikesh on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Karchi the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Rishikesh:
You can retrace the same journey back from Rishikesh to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Lohajung on your own:
While there is one direct bus from Rishikesh to Lohajung, there are many other ways to reach Lohajung on your own as well.
Option 1: Direct Bus from Rishikesh
There is one direct bus from Rishikesh to Lohajung. It leaves Rishikesh at 5 AM.
Reaches Lohajung at 5 PM.
Option 2: Rishikesh to Karnprayag and onwards to Lohajung
From Rishikesh, take a bus or shared cab to Karnprayag (6-7 hours),
From Karnprayag, you’ll find shared jeeps going to Debal.
From Debal, you get shared transport to Lohajung.
Option 3: Kathgodam to Lohajung by Shared Jeeps
You can also access Lohajung via Kathgodam.
From Kathgodam, you get shared jeeps going to Debal via Almora and Gwaldam.
From Debal, you’ll get shared jeeps to Lohajung.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Where is Ali Bedni Bugyal? expand accordion
Ali Bedni Bugyal is an alpine meadow in the state of Uttarakhand. It lies directly North of popular hill stations like Nainital, Kausani, Almora and Gwaldam. You’ll see these meadows at an elevation range of around 10,000 ft – 11,000 ft. These meadows are famous for being beautiful landmarks on the Roopkund trail.
It takes two days of climbing to reach Ali and Bedni Bugyal from Lohajung. If you’re approaching Ali and Bedni Bugyal from Didna, it takes slightly longer (a rough distance of 15 km). Being just south of the Nanda Devi Sanctuary, these meadows have striking views of the peaks within the sanctuary — Mt Nanda Ghunti, Mt Trishul, Maiktoli and Mrigthuni. You also see the Chaukhamba massif from these meadows.
What does Bugyal mean? expand accordion
Bugyal (pronounced boog-yaal) is a Hindi word that refers to alpine pasture lands or alpine meadows that grow above around 10,500 ft and below 13,000 ft. These alpine meadows are always found above the treeline, so they’re vast open lands, usually with great scenic views of the mountains and valleys around them.
Ali Bugyal and Bedni Bugyal are two of the most famous bugyals in our country. Dayara Bugyal and Gidara Bugyal are other examples of bugyals in India.
What is the best time for Ali Bedni Bugyal trek? expand accordion
Ali Bedni Bugyal trek is open throughout the year except in monsoons. Spring is the best time to do the trek if what you want is clear skies and grand mountain views. Summer will give you lush greenery in the meadows and wildflowers growing in abundance. But the Ali Bedni winter trek is the one with the most beautiful snow cover in the entire country. For more detailed information, please refer to this section .
How long is the Ali Bedni Bugyal trek? expand accordion
The Ali Bedni Bugyal trek covers around 30 km in 4 days. (6 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 7,550 ft in Lohajung all the way to 12,550 ft.
What is the speciality of Ali Bedni bugyal? expand accordion
Ali Bedni Bugyal has the grandest of mountain views among the meadow treks in our country. You witness the majesty of Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti throughout the trek. It has vast meadows and rhododendron forests. For a more detailed guide, you can watch these Ali Bedni Bugyal trek reviews by experts.
How difficult is the Ali Bedni Bugyal trek? expand accordion
Ali Bedni trek is rated as a Easy-Moderate trek.
Getting to the details, this 6-day trek climbs from 7,550 ft to 12,550 ft. That’s almost an altitude gain of 5,000 ft. This climb is one of the major challenges on the trek. However, The entire trail is well laid out. No special skill or help is required for navigation.
Although the prior experience of trekking in the Himalayas is not required, it helps in accustoming you to the hardship.
How fit do I need to be to do the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Ali Bedni requires a good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run, walk or jog at least 5 km in 40 minutes before your trek. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
What is the style of accommodation on this trek? expand accordion
Ali Bedni Bugyal is a 6 day trek. The stay on Day 1 and Day 5, at Lohajung, will be in a guest house, where you will share rooms with fellow trekkers. Stay on all other days of the trek in tents. Each tent accommodates 2 trekkers. A sufficient number of toilet tents will be set up for the convenience of trekkers.
When will there be snow on this trek? expand accordion
You are likely to find snow on this trail in December, January and February. Sometimes, you can get lucky and find snow well into March.
Can I take my child along on this trek? What is the age limit? expand accordion
Ali Bedni Buygal is a easy-moderate trek. The minimum age for eligibility is 8 years. If your child meets this criterion and is physically fit, you can take her/him along.
What are the washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
The guest house at Lohajung will have concrete toilets.
During the trek, toilet tents will be set up along each campsite. There will be 2 to 4 of these toilet tents depending on the size of the group. A toilet tent will have a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. This is the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild.
Please use plain toilet paper and refrain from using wet wipes since these are not biodegradable.
What Happens To Your Poop in the Mountains? | Green Trails | Indiahikes
Will there be water sources on the way? Will two litres of water be enough? expand accordion
Our campsites are pitched near water sources. For your day’s trek, two litres of water should be enough. On Day 2 and Day 5, you will find one water source to refill your water bottles. Your trek leader will brief you about these before starting the day’s trek.
Is there a mobile network & electricity on this trek? expand accordion
You will get mobile signals at Lohajung for most networks. Signals will be intermittent in the mountains. So finish all your important calls at Lohajung and inform anxious family members about limited phone connectivity.
As per electricity, The last charging point would be at our basecamp in Lohajung. However, come prepared for the possibility of power cuts at Lohajung.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Ali Bedni Bugyal? expand accordion
Rishikesh is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp. If you are planning to visit other attractions after the trek, we advise you to carry more.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp in Lohajung? expand accordion
Since you will be starting and returning to the guest house at Lohajung, it is possible for you to leave some luggage behind, if required. However, make sure you do not leave any valuables - Indiahikes is not responsible for loss or damage to any belongings.
What are the places of interest that I can visit before or after the trek? expand accordion
You can spend time exploring tourist attractions around Rishikesh, Bhimtal, or Kausani. Please note that these are suggestions and Indiahikes does not make any arrangements for visiting them.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to run, walk or jog jog 5 km in 40 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack. It'll cost you Rs 1,600 for the trek. You can reach out to the Experience Coordinator once you have the registration done. Find details about the offloading process here.
How to Get Fit for the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Ali Bedni Bugyal Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 40 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.