Atsunta Pass Georgia Trek 2026 | Trek from Omalo to Shatili Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Callback
Georgia Atsunta Pass Trek
The flower bouquet trek of Georgia
We've announced 2026 dates for Atsunta Pass trek. Book Now !
If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click here to request a callback.
The flower bouquet trek of Georgia
The Atsunta Pass trek, we believe, is the greatest trek in Georgia. We don’t say this without reason. The trek passes through the most breathtaking mountainscape of the Caucasus Mountains.
The grasslands, for which the trek is famous, are perfectly landscaped. They extend as far as your eyes can reach. The lush greenery of these grasslands, with wildflowers growing almost every inch, is something so unique to the Atsunta Pass trek. These wildflowers extend not for a few hundred metres but for kilometres together!
play video
Nestled in these grasslands are the charming Georgian villages that give you an insight into the culture. At Omalo and Dartlo, you stay in these villages, experience the warm hospitality and delicious local food.
Read more
expand overview
The trek is open only for a short window, from July to September. This is when the snow and rain are less, making the pass accessible. The meadows are at their greenest in July and transition to golden towards September.
Nestled in these grasslands are the charming Georgian villages that give you an insight into the culture. At Omalo and Dartlo, you stay in these villages, experience the warm hospitality and delicious local food.
In addition to the villages, the ruins of ancient fortresses decorate the entire remote trail. These are not just heritage but history, many centuries old. While you marvel at these towers jutting out of the grasslands, at Dartlo, you even get to explore one.
The thrill of climbing the high Atsunta Pass is pure adventure. Not many treks in Europe give you the high of a pass crossing as much as the Atsunta Pass. It is no less than any high-altitude Himalayan pass crossing. The landscape shifts dramatically from lush green grasslands to moraine terrain. The changes in the scenery during the pass crossing are stunning.
The drive before and after the trek are as thrilling as the trek itself. You drive to the country parts of Georgia on the bone-jarring dirt tracks. But the scenery on both sides compensates for that. You wouldn’t want to close your eyes, even for a second. The drive and the trek combined give you a unique experience of crossing a mountain pass before, during, and after the trek. This is a rarity on any trek.
Most people have not heard of Georgia, but when you get there, you will be somewhat taken aback. Georgia in itself is worth visiting. The history, tradition, and culture are vibrant. Tbilisi, the capital, is modern and yet holds on to its deep roots. Theatre, music, and the arts are thriving. There is a lot of heritage to see and discover. The food is delicious and wonderful. Georgians are extremely warm and friendly. For us Indians, it is amazing how affordable everything is.
Please note that the experience of this trek will be different from a typical Indiahikes experience:
The trek will be run in an assisted Do-It-Yourself (DIY) style: This means we are going to be doing the trek all by ourselves, without the regular Indiahikes support team. In terms of safety, our highly trained Trek Leaders will be with you. You will not have to carry any tents or sleeping bags but you have to help with cooking meals and pitching tents, including toilet tents.
The food will be different: You may not find your usual Indiahikes food. Instead, you will be served good Georgian cuisine. On camp days, the food will be Indian.
Apart from these, you can expect to see our own tents, our toilet tents and our Green Trails practices.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
Accommodation
Stay is included from Day 1 to Day 5. You will be staying at a hotel on Day 1. The rest of the days will be camping on the trek.
Meals
All meals from dinner on Day 1 to breakfast (in Shatili) on Day 7 are included before checkout. We provide simple, nutritious vegetarian food on all days of the trek.
Camping Charges
All trek permits and camping charges are included.
Trek Equipment
High-quality tents and sleeping bags are included in your trek fee. Technical equipment like ice axes, ropes, microspikes, gaiters etc., are also provided as and when required.
Safety Equipment
Your Trek Leader comes equipped with a High Altitude Medical Kit.
Trek Exclusions
Food during transit
Any food or snack you have during your travel to and from the base camp is in your own expense.
Travel
Transport to and from the basecamp
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 10,000 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Insurance for the trek and travel
For international treks, the insurance fee is not included in the trek cost. However, we highly recommend getting insurance. At Indiahikes, we trust ASC360 and recommend applying through them. Click here to know why .
Your stay in Tiblisi and your stay, transport after the trek.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
Indiahikes shall not be held responsible for any flight delays or cancellations. Flight recommendations provided by Indiahikes are for reference only, and trekkers are advised to verify schedules and make necessary arrangements independently.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the base camp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork. I may seek guidance from Indiahikes regarding the process; however, Indiahikes shall not be held liable if I am unable to obtain the required documents.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Atsunta Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a High-Altitude trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Atsunta Pass trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Refer this chart to get an idea of altitude gain or loss on each day of the trek
Day 1
Drive from Tbilisi to Omalo
Pick-up point: Freedom Square, Tbilisi | Pick-up time: 9 am | Drive distance: 186 km
The cost of an SUV (about GEL 600 per SUV) will be shared equally amongst trekkers. Each SUV can comfortably for 4 to 5 trekkers. The cost of transport, however, varies from season to season. Please carry buffer cash because this payment has to be made directly to your transporter in Georgia.
Day 2
Trek from Omalo to Dartlo
Trek Distance: 12.5 km | Duration: 4½ hours | Altitude gain/loss : 6100 ft to 5944 ft via 7,500 ft
What to expect: Initial climb of 4.5 km to Ghele, followed by a gentle 7 km descent on a motorable road.
Day 3
Trek from Dartlo to Girevi
Trek Distance: 15 km | Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude gain: 5944 ft to 6745 ft
What to expect: Flattish walk on a motorable road, except for a slight climb outside Girevi.
Day 4
Trek from Girevi to Atsunta Base Camp
Trek Distance: 21 km | Duration: 10-11 hours | Altitude gain: 6745 ft to 9183 ft
What to expect: Gradually ascending trail, with some short sharp climbs in between. A long climb towards the end.
Day 5
Trek from Atsunta Base Camp to Khidotani via Atsunta Pass
Trek Distance : 11.1 km | Duration: 7 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 9183 ft to 8694 ft via 11,581 ft
What to expect: Stiff climb to the pass. A sharp descent to the grasslands followed by a gently undulating walk over the meadows.
Day 6
Trek from Khidotani to Mutso and drive to Shatili
Trek Distance : 8 km | Altitude loss: 8694 ft to 4655 ft | Drive distance: 12.5 km | Drive duration: 30 minutes
What to expect: Steep descent to the river followed by a gentle walk to Mutso/Shatili on a motorable road
Day 7
Drive from Shatili to Tbilisi
Drive distance: 150 km | Drop-off point: Freedom Square, Tbilisi | Drop-off time: 4 pm to 7 pm
The cost of an SUV (about GEL 600 per SUV) will be shared equally amongst trekkers. Each SUV can comfortably for 4 to 5 trekkers. The cost of transport, however, varies from season to season. Please carry buffer cash.
Important Note
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Trekking, by nature, is subject to last-minute uncertainty. Book flexible flight tickets so that you don't lose out on your flight charges in case of cancellations/rescheduling.
➤ Keep at least 3 buffer days in your travel plan. One before the trek, when you arrive at Tbilisi, and two days after your trek. This is because the Atsunta Pass trail is susceptible to heavy rain, which could delay your return from the trek.
For buffer day, we will charge only if we use it on the trek. The charges are €80 (approx. GEL 270). You will have to pay this in cash to your Trek leader on the last day of the trek. We accept both Euros and GEL. Keep this cash in hand.
➤ This trek will be run in a Do-It-Yourself (DIY) style. This means we are going to be doing the trek all by ourselves, without the regular Indiahikes support team. You have to help with cooking meals and pitching tents, including toilet tents. You will not have to carry any tents or sleeping bags, but you will have to work together with the team.
➤ Expect the experience to be different from a typical Indiahikes experience. In terms of safety, our highly trained Trek Leaders will be with you. You can expect to see our own tents, our toilet tents and our Green Trails practices.
In terms of food, you may not find your usual Indiahikes food. You will not find Gulab Jamun after crossing the pass. :P Instead, you will be served good Georgian cuisine. On camp days, the food will be Indian.
How Does Each Day Look
Detailed itinerary of the trail
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Get to Omalo
Today is the start of your big trek to Atsunta pass. It starts with first getting to Omalo, the base of your trek.
Omalo is in the heart of the Tusheti National Park — which means you are getting to the most picturesque region of Georgia on the first day of your trek.
In Georgia, there are several mountain regions. But out of the many, three of them bowl people over for their beauty. Tusheti, Khevsureti and Svaneti. On this trek, you are going to start in Tusheti and end up in Khevsureti, which means you cover two of the three most beautiful regions of Georgia.
Read More
Today is the start of your big trek to Atsunta pass. It starts with first getting to Omalo, the base of your trek.
Omalo is in the heart of the Tusheti National Park — which means you are getting to the most picturesque region of Georgia on the first day of your trek.
In Georgia, there are several mountain regions. But out of the many, three of them bowl people over for their beauty. Tusheti, Khevsureti and Svaneti. On this trek, you are going to start in Tusheti and end up in Khevsureti, which means you cover two of the three most beautiful regions of Georgia.
Getting to Omalo is a whole day’s drive (about 7-8 hours), a good part of it over a non-existent 72 km dirt track between Alvani and Omalo — but the jaw-dropping sceneries make up for every discomfort you face. You also cross the famous Abano Pass on the way, the highest motorable pass in Georgia.
Tbilisi to Alvani (110 km)
Your first task is to get to Central Bus Station in Tbilisi. From Freedom Square, take the metro to Isani Metro Station (approx. GEL 0.50), get off, cross the road, get to the intersection on the other side (facing the hill) and take a bus from there. Use Google Maps to see which bus goes to the Central Bus Station. We used No 71. It is hardly 7-8 mins to the Central Bus Station.
From Central Bus Station, take the minibus to Alvani. It leaves at 9.10 am. Get there an hour earlier because that’s the only bus that plies to Alvani. It gets crowded with trekkers to Omalo and even local folk. The bus has only 18 seats. Among the 18, 3 members will have to sit on the aisle in a makeshift chair attached to the main seat (no backrest). You could be one of them if you don’t get there early enough.
Note (if you’re trekking on your own):
From Freedom Square it takes about 45 minutes to reach Central Bus Stand, all stops and changes included. The Central Bus Station is also called the Ortachala Central Bus Station.
For the further journey from Alvani to Omalo, it makes sense to hook up with other trekkers on the minibus. After reaching Alvani you are unlikely to get any travel partners.
Alvani to Omalo (72 km)
The road to Alvani heads out in the direction of the airport, crossing it, before turning right roughly about 12.5 km after the airport.
In about 45 minutes the road touches the foothills of the Caucasian mountains. The road gently meanders through the beautiful folds of the foothills before getting to Alvani in about 3 hours.
Numerous SUVs are waiting for passengers of the Alvani bus. Your bus driver usually helps you by hooking you up with drivers of the SUVs. It costs approx. GEL 225 per SUV to Omalo. SUVs usually accommodate between 4 and 6 passengers, so the cost can be shared.
It is a 72 km dirt track to Omalo. The initial stretch navigates through forests. Two hours of a roller coaster ride later, the road suddenly bursts out into meadows.
The sight leaves your senses stunned. Rolling lush green meadows with snow patches sweep the landscape. It is an endless gaze of green until the horizon where hills in the distance meet.
The SUVs continue to climb through the meadows in a series of switchbacks, crossing the Abano Pass at 2,850 meters in the next half hour. The road stays a dirt track but is no longer the bone-jarring ride.
Across the pass, the road descends quickly, entering a cluster of silver birch trees before finally descending towards the Akhieti River. About 15 minutes from the river look out for your first sight of an old Georgian village, Khiso, on your right.
From Khiso, it is another 40-minute climb to Omalo, entering the meadows again.
Omalo, from a distance is stunning with its pretty houses stretched out over the meadows. It gets prettier as you get closer.
Note:
Omalo is split into two parts. Lower and Upper Omalo. Lower Omalo is cheaper and frankly, offers better views. The guesthouses may not be as fancy as Upper Omalo, but they make up for it with their views.
A room at Lower Omalo costs about approx. GEL 56, with a meal at GEL 22. Breakfast costs GEL 15. You can also opt for a smaller lunch or dinner at GEL 15. Georgian meals are usually very filling, so you could opt for a smaller meal.
If you need guides or horses, Omalo is a good place to find them. Here, the rates for horses are approx. GEL 56 per day. Guides charge GEL 112 per day.
From Omalo to Shatili the charges include the total number of trekking days plus two days for their return. You don’t have to pay extra charges for their food, stay or tents.
Horses always need to travel with a guide (A guide manages the horse, as well as takes you on the trek — so it is a dual function). One guide can easily manage a team of horses. For larger groups, it makes sense to take horses from Omalo in case you wish to offload your backpacks or ride a horse when you feel tired.
All the costs given here are approximate numbers.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Omalo to Dartlo
Trek Distance: 12.5 km | Duration: 4½ hours
Initial climb of 4.5 km to Ghele, followed by a gentle 7 km descent on a motorable road.
Dartlo is a world heritage village. So getting it is exciting. On the way, look out for the clearing of Kue just a few hundred meters below Upper Omalo. Ghele, the highest point of the day's trek is another spectacular open clearing with wildflowers growing everywhere. The stretch between Kue and Ghele runs through very old Caucasian Pines.
Omalo to Ghele (4.5 km)
Take the trail to the left of Tishe Hostel. It quickly climbs past the last houses of lower Omalo.
Read More
Dartlo is a world heritage village. So getting it is exciting. On the way, look out for the clearing of Kue just a few hundred meters below Upper Omalo. Ghele, the highest point of the day's trek is another spectacular open clearing with wildflowers growing everywhere. The stretch between Kue and Ghele runs through very old Caucasian Pines.
Omalo to Ghele (4.5 km)
Take the trail to the left of Tishe Hostel. It quickly climbs past the last houses of lower Omalo.
Hug the big wooden fenced building to the left until you get to the motorable road to Dartlo. Cut across the road and trudge along the foot trail that runs past the signpost.
The trail climbs steeply towards Upper Omalo while the motorable road to Dartlo climbs through a series of switchbacks on your right. The foot trail approaches the first guest houses of Upper Omalo from behind.
In Upper Omalo you’ll find a big square in the centre of the village. Look for a water tap on the left of the square to fill drinking water. Fill up here because the next water source is only after the big climb to Ghele.
From the square continue on the motorable road to Dartlo. The road climbs out of the last houses of Upper Omalo within minutes.
In five minutes the motorable road tops up and begins to descend. Look for a foot trail that veers off the road to your left just after the signpost. Take the trail and continue along as it cuts through the motorable road a few times before bottoming out in the exquisite clearing of Kue.
Kue is a clearing that stuns you even before you get there. From higher up on the trail, the big clearing is lined with pine trees on all sides, and in the middle, a lush green patch invites horses and cows. Take a breather here. You’ll need to catch your breath for the next one hour is a big climb to Ghele, 3 km away.
Take the trail that cuts through the clearing directly ahead of you with the pine trees to your right. A signboard at the bottom of Kue points you in the right direction. The trail climbs out of the clearing, enters a cluster of pine trees, veers left and regains the altitude of Upper Omalo in about half an hour.
As you climb, look out for the scenery on your left. You’ll soon see the impressive towers of Omalo standing tall on the ridges. They stand out against the emptiness of the valley behind them.
After a last glimpse of the towers, the trail turns right and enters another cluster of Caucasian pines. The fresh scent of these pines keeps you company through the climb! The trail veers left and then forges straight ahead before popping out on the motorable road to Dartlo.
This leaves the big climb behind you. The rest of the trail, around one kilometre long, ascends gently along the motorable road, until it turns right and opens up at the clearing of Ghele.
Ghele is another visual delight. Ghele is pass and a junction of sorts. It is from here that you see mountains from another side of the range for the first time. The Pirikita range climbs sharply from Ghele, with the early hills forming undulating meadows on your left. Below and to your right, lovely wildflowers grow in gay abandon! Trails to the village of Dikolo start straight ahead, cutting across the wildflowers.
Ghele to Dartlo (7 km)
Resume your trek on the motorable road to your left. The road gradually descends to the river and Dartlo.
About a kilometre down the road from Ghele is a water spot on the left — the only one after Upper Omalo. The water is clear, cool and refreshing. Fill your bottles because you still have about an hour and a half’s descent to Dartlo.
An hour from the water source, a big stream cuts across the road, which you can easily cross over. The stream signals your first views of the ancient Dartlo village. You catch your first glimpse of Dartlo, perched atop a large pasture, just at the bend before the stream.
Half an hour later, spot a bridge over the Alazani river. This is your entrance to Dartlo.
To enter Dartlo, do not continue on the road. Take the foot trail just past the board that lays out the Tushetian visitor's rules and regulations. Then cross the second wooden bridge just below the outer tower of Dartlo.
Dartlo is an ancient Tushetian village more than 6 centuries old. The houses of Dartlo are from that period. Walking through Dartlo, you not only get a glimpse of true Georgian culture, but you step back in time — a history unknown to modern mankind.
For campers, there are flat grounds just next to the river. For food, you could head to the many guest houses at Dartlo. They double up as eateries. There is also a public water tap at the foot of Dartlo not too far away from the towers.
In the evening, climb up to Kavavlo, the impressive towers and ruins that watch over Dartlo. Kavavlo is a good 200 m (700 ft) above Dartlo, nearly an hour’s climb. The climb is heady as it initially meanders through wild thickets, and later over impressive views of the entire Dartlo region. There’s a cafe and a water spot at Kavavlo.
The route to Kavavlo starts at the foot of Dartlo, just opposite the public tap. Climb up to the top of the village, and gain access to the main shepherds’ trail as it traverses above Dartlo. You’ll find the familiar white and red markings signalling the trail. Follow the markings until Kavavlo.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Dartlo to Girevi
Trek Distance: 15 km | Duration: 5-6 hours
Flattish walk on a motorable road, except for a slight climb outside Girevi.
Today’s trek is almost totally on the road until the last stretch to Girevi. It is the easiest day on the trek with no ascents or descents. You gain barely 200 m (700 ft) the entire day. Spend the day soaking in the scenery and the culture of Georgia.
Dartlo to Cheso
Start by walking past the campsites of Dartlo onto the motorable road to Girevi. Outside Dartlo, the road takes a turn to give you a superb view of the Alazani river gently swerving over grassy banks.
Read More
Today’s trek is almost totally on the road until the last stretch to Girevi. It is the easiest day on the trek with no ascents or descents. You gain barely 200 m (700 ft) the entire day. Spend the day soaking in the scenery and the culture of Georgia.
Dartlo to Cheso
Start by walking past the campsites of Dartlo onto the motorable road to Girevi. Outside Dartlo, the road takes a turn to give you a superb view of the Alazani river gently swerving over grassy banks.
Further ahead, the road passes small shepherds’ settlements on the other bank. The shepherds usually go about their work nonchalantly as you pass by. The absence of women in such settlements is interesting.
As you trek further, the impressive Pirikita range towers to your left, giving you grand views of its green folds.
An hour and fifteen minutes later the road turns right exposing a long beautiful curve. Nestled over a small flattish mound is a solitary shepherds’ hut. The setting is beautifully picturesque!
As the road completes the “C”, it turns sharply to the right. You reach a big stream gushing over the road. You have no option but to ford the stream on foot. Take off your boots and feel the cool waters run through your toes. The stream is just about shin-deep.
Half an hour after you’ve crossed the stream, the road again curves to the right, giving you the first views of Cheso village. Like other ancient villages on the trail, Cheso is a marvel to look at from a distance.
As you approach Cheso, there is another gushing stream over the road that needs fording. You could avoid it by climbing up to the village and crossing over a wooden bridge. This way, you get to visit the village too, a welcome break with enough cafes to take a quick bite.
Cheso to Pharsma
Multiple paths lead out of the village back to the road. After a quick break, take any of them and continue trekking.
Impressive towers rise from the ridge above Cheso. The road from Cheso curves left getting to the bottom of the ridge on which the towers stand.
As the road circumvents the end of the ridge above Cheso, the scenery takes on a new form. The valley opens up. The steep flanks of the Pirikita range give way to gentler drops. You see more snow patches on the other bank, which soon turns meadowy.
It is no surprise that there are more shepherds’ huts and flocks of sheep on the other side of the river. It is another hour to Pharsma, and the picture-perfect scenery stays with you all along.
Fifteen minutes before Pharsma, look out for another set of magnificent towers on the other side of the river.
The Pharsma you see close to the trail is just two cafes spread out over meadows — a good spot to rest and refill your water bottle. A third Cafe Beso is high up on the hillside next to an ancient building.
The real Pharsma village is much above the road, nestled among the ancient ruins. You can’t see the village from the road. However, as the road continues towards Girevi, look back to catch a sight of the Pharsma village. Some trekkers do take a detour and climb up the village, but it is mostly unnecessary. The villages of Dartlo and Girevi give trekkers a similar experience.
Pharsma to Girevi
A kilometre outside Pharsma, the motorable road abruptly ends just as you catch your first glimpse of Girevi. From afar, Girevi looks warm and inviting, snuggled in the lap of a vast meadow.
From the end of the road, the foot trail traverses the very edge of the river. While the stony path weaves in and out just above the river, it doesn’t pose any risk. The section doesn’t last more than 200 meters.
After this, the trail climbs quickly into the meadows of Girevi. There are flat camping grounds between the two culverts that run parallel to the Girevi village. If you are not camping, continue to the village until you find a familiar yellow signpost that signals the start of the village.
There are a bunch of guesthouses on either side of the culvert. The real Girevi village is behind the guest houses.
Girevi is a shepherds’ settlement, so expect to see cows and sheep grazing about. The villagers also grow their greens in their backyards.
We must warn you, Girevi is notorious for its dogs that often bark and growl at visitors. Be careful around the dogs. Always carry a hiking pole with you. Shoo away any dog that gets uncomfortably close with a gesture of picking up a stone.
In the evening, climb to the top of Girevi and get on the trail to Atsunta Pass. Walk towards the towers and then look back towards Girevi. This gives you a perfect picture of Girevi and how wonderfully it is landscaped.
Note 1:
It is important to register yourself with the border security post that is behind and below Girevi. It is a big white fabricated structure with the Georgian flag and the Border Security flag fluttering over it.
At this post, you will be asked for your passport. They will issue a slip of paper that allows you to continue on the trek. You will have to show this pass at all checkpoints on the trek.
Get this paperwork done the evening you arrive at Girevi. It takes about 20-30 minutes for all formalities to be completed. Usually, no questions are asked of you — even though the guards appear formal.
Note 2:
At Girevi, a bed costs approx. GEL 25-30 with each meal at GEL 15. At some guest houses, a bed may cost GEL 45-55.
No pack horses are available at Girevi, even though you see plenty of them grazing about.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Girevi to Atsunta Base Camp
Trek Distance: 21 km | Duration: 10-11 hours
Gradually ascending trail, with some short sharp climbs in between. A long climb towards the end.
You cover a long distance today, almost 21 km. The distance is worth it though because it puts you in a good position for the pass climb the next day.
In Girevi, climb up to the last guest house, Kerigo . The trail to Atsunta Base Camp starts to the left of the guest house and heads towards the ridge just above the towers of Girevi.
Across the bridge, you can see the valley split into two. Your trail follows the valley to the right.
Read More
You cover a long distance today, almost 21 km. The distance is worth it though because it puts you in a good position for the pass climb the next day.
In Girevi, climb up to the last guest house, Kerigo . The trail to Atsunta Base Camp starts to the left of the guest house and heads towards the ridge just above the towers of Girevi.
Across the bridge, you can see the valley split into two. Your trail follows the valley to the right.
Twenty minutes later, as you round the corner of another ridge, the valley to the right opens up. In the far distance, you can see the ruins of Chontio.
The trail stays about 200 m (800 ft) above the river, maintaining a steady height as it rounds a big curve.
The scenery that opens up when you see the ruins of Chontio is magnificent. The high altitude Georgian meadows are in full view. Added to this, the trail is lined with wildflowers.
It takes slightly more than an hour to get to the ruins of Chontio. About ten minutes before the ruins, the trail banks a sharp left crosses a stream and takes a steep path across a landslide section.
The landslide section is small but navigate it carefully. Find firm footmarks on the trail to cross safely.
The ruins make a good spot to take a breather as you soak in the aura of the ancient structures.
Past the ruins, about 5.5 km out of Girevi, look out for a shepherd’s hut standing on a flattish mound. Spot a few trails that go down to the river from the hut. At the river bed is a small flat camping ground. It is a good spot to get to if in case you want to reduce the distance of the day. So instead of staying earlier at Girevi, you could camp at this spot. You can also consider camping beside the shepherds’ hut: it has terrific views, has a source of water and the reassuring presence of the shepherds. Just keep watchful of the dogs.
About forty minutes from here, all the while trekking through beautiful grasslands, the trail reaches a big stream tumbling across the trail. There isn’t any option but to ford the stream here.
Fifteen minutes past this point, the valley narrows, and the view changes almost suddenly to a closed valley. Another half-hour later the trail drops down to the river bed for the first time on the trek.
Soon after this descent, you have a long switchback climb to the top of the ridge, gaining the 500-600 feet that you’ve lost. As you climb, you reach the end of a ridge. Rounding the ridge gives you the first views of the Kvakhidistkali meadows and also the split valley in front.
From your high point, it is a longish descent right to the meadows. From above you’ll see two shepherds’ huts and a few toilet tents on the meadows.
From the ridge, get down to the river again, cross a small wooden bridge and step into the Kvakhidistkali meadows. It is a lovely flattish meadow with gently sloping ledges rising from the far end of the meadows.
The shepherds have set up a shop where you can buy food, soft drinks and a few knick-knacks. There is also a good water source in the middle of the meadows where shepherds have set up a pipe. The shepherd’s hut also doubles up as a border check post where staff from the security forces will ask to see your passport and your trekking pass.
The Kvakhidistkali meadows make for a good camping spot. You can set up your tent on the many ledges around the meadows or camp right in the meadows. Most trekkers end their day here.
However, our advice would be to camp 6 km further ahead on a ridge close to the base of the Atsunta pass. This gives you a big distance advantage. You put in significantly less effort to cross the pass the next day. The shortened distance also allows you to enjoy the next day’s trail more.
If you are making your way to the Atsunta Base Camp, trace back your steps to the wooden bridge, cross over and rejoin the main trail that goes towards Atsunta pass.
The trail runs along the river bed parallel to the Kvakhidistkali meadows before climbing onto the grasslands above the river.
Once on the grasslands, it is a delight to walk through the undulating landscape. The lovely grasslands stretch long towards the end of the valley with wildflowers growing everywhere.
In an hour, at the end of the grasslands, the valley begins to narrow. The trail drops down to the river bed and continues on the river bed for some time. You’ll find sub-trails heading off from the river into the grasslands, but stay on the river bed until you spot a small shepherd’s hut on your right.
Two minutes further, there is a mark on a rock which shows an arrow towards Shatili. You will have to cross a stream here.
Expect waist-deep water in the stream around July, fording it may not be easy. Later in the season, you’ll find calf-deep water.
Most trekkers ford the stream on their own, but you can also arrange for a horse from the Kvakhidistkali meadows. It helps if you are in a group and a horse is accompanying you. On the other hand, you can team up with a bigger team crossing the stream.
Note:
You can negotiate a horse for the stream crossing from the Kvakhidistkali meadows for about GEL 60 to 100. You can team up with 4-6 people and share the cost in between.
Across the stream, the trail runs along the main Kvakhidistkali river (though the river looks smaller than the stream you had to ford). Continue upstream, in about ten minutes the trail turns to the right and climbs through a narrow culvert amidst thick undergrowth.
In a while, you have to cross the stream in the culvert too. Across the culvert, there is a smallish campsite. Avoid this and continue your climb on the meadows.
A twenty-minute steep climb through the meadows will bring you to another campsite on top of a ridge. This is your camp spot of the day. It is a terrific spot with lovely views of the valley behind you. Up ahead stares at you the trail to Atsunta pass. You are nestled in a large amphitheatre setting.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Atsunta Base Camp to Khidotani via Atsunta Pass
Trek Distance: 11.1 km | Duration: 7 hours
Stiff climb to the pass. A sharp descent to the grasslands followed by a gently undulating walk over the meadows.
This is the day of the big pass day. There is a lot of height to gain and an impressive altitude to lose as well.
This is why your Atsunta Base Camp makes sense. The head start is great for the pass rush.
Starting at the Atsunta Base Camp, the trail leads you to the base of the Atsunta passing through a series of ledges. The ledges make a good rest point for the trail is no longer gentle walks through the grasslands but gain altitude rapidly with every step.
Read More
This is the day of the big pass day. There is a lot of height to gain and an impressive altitude to lose as well.
This is why your Atsunta Base Camp makes sense. The head start is great for the pass rush.
Starting at the Atsunta Base Camp, the trail leads you to the base of the Atsunta passing through a series of ledges. The ledges make a good rest point for the trail is no longer gentle walks through the grasslands but gain altitude rapidly with every step.
Aim for the first ledge which is 20 minutes out of the Atsunta Base Camp. A clear stream runs close by — which also makes a good spot to fill your bottles.
From the first ledge aim for the second ledge from where you’ll get your first views of the Atsunta Pass. The pass is perched high up on the mountainside to your right — the trail to the pass is visible. Looking back the views are spectacular, as are the views in front.
From the second ledge, a swift switchback climb tops up at your third ledge which also serves as the base of your big climb to the pass.
There is a tiny stream at the foot of the big climb to the pass, where, if you are patient enough you can fill your bottles. There isn’t any other water source until you descend off the pass on the other side.
At the spot, you are already at 10,200 feet. There are another 1,300 feet of climb left to the pass. You have climbed approximately 1,000 feet from your Atsunta Base Camp.
The climb to the pass starts with a traverse to the right, losing sight of the pass, climbs rapidly over many small switchbacks, followed by another long traverse to the left that brings back the view of the pass. From here it is another 500 feet to the pass.
In between the traverses, you lose all green cover and the climb is entirely over brown earth and shale.
The final push to the pass is hard on the lungs but mentally easier as the pass is visible all the time.
The pass at 3,530 m (11,575 feet) is a cold windy place, with the wind blowing a blizzard. It is a tiny pass barely 10 meters in length and a few meters wide — which also forms the wind tunnel. The view of the Khidotani range on the other side is stunning.
A huge wide canvas of green opens up on the other side. The contrast between the brown of the pass and the greens on the other side is startling.
The trail that descends from the pass is visible as it rapidly loses altitude in very short switchbacks, bottoms out as it touches the grasslands, and makes a long traverse across the bottom of the pass and heads towards the Khidotani meadows before disappearing into it.
The moment you step off the pass, the wind dies out. It is almost like a button has been switched off — through the wind is back sometimes when you get to the exposed parts of the climb down from the pass.
It takes less than an hour to descend to the greens and also to your first water source. Filling up, continue your traverse along the flanks of the Khidotani range heading towards the top of the Khidotani meadows. The traverses pass through some lovely sections of Rhododendrons and wildflowers.
The traverse initially descends and gently climbs again before popping out on the Khidotani meadows.
The meadows sprawl out over the top of the Khidotani range — which makes it a sight for the eyes. It is involuntary but most trekkers will spend a lot of time trekking this section, easily one of the best moments of the trek.
Cutting diagonally across the meadows, the trail heads towards the behind of the last hilltop of the Khidotani range. On the other side, you see another side of yet another splendid valley. Deep down the valley spot the village of Ardoti which is also the last road head from Mutso, where your trek ends.
The traverse on the other side again brings you round to the side facing the Atsunta pass. Forty minutes and a short descent later the trails stop short at the border check post of the Khidotani meadows. At the border check post, you need to show your passport and your trek pass again.
The border check post is also a lovely spot to end the day's trek, on top of the meadows. You can camp anywhere around the checkpost — there are plenty of camping spots everywhere. Around the camping area, the views are terrific.
A water spot is available not too far from the check post towards the hillside. You can also get water from a pipe inside the checkpost.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Khidotani to Mutso and drive to Shatili
Trek Distance : 8 km | Drive distance: 12.5 km | Drive duration: 30 minutes
Steep descent to the river followed by a gentle walk to Mutso/Shatili on a motorable road
The last day of the trek is a big descent to Mutso followed by a long walk to Shatili.
Past the bench outside the Khidotani check post, the trail quickly gets into the treeline. Once inside the treeline, the trail dives right into the undergrowth and thick tree cover.
The descent to the river is sharp, steep and over multiple switchbacks. It is a long descent of almost 840 meters (2,760 feet), which can be quite gruelling on the knees and toes.
Read More
The last day of the trek is a big descent to Mutso followed by a long walk to Shatili.
Past the bench outside the Khidotani check post, the trail quickly gets into the treeline. Once inside the treeline, the trail dives right into the undergrowth and thick tree cover.
The descent to the river is sharp, steep and over multiple switchbacks. It is a long descent of almost 840 meters (2,760 feet), which can be quite gruelling on the knees and toes.
All along the descent, the forest cover changes rapidly, first through silver birch and then through a mixed forest, finally ending at a sparse forest just above the river.
It takes about an hour and a half to descend the river. Once down, follow the trail until it gets into the river bed ten minutes later.
On the river bed, the trail continues for a bit until you have to ford the river in two places. Villagers have kept loose logs of silver birch to cross over, but they can be precarious. It is better to get down n all fours on the logs to cross the river. The river below gushes.
Once on the other side continue on the trail getting to Khonischala village in another ten minutes. Just before the village, there is a foot wooden bridge to cross the river. You are back on the left bank of the river.
At the Khonischala village, the trail merges with a motorable dirt road that starts from the village. There is a guest house and some shops to buy food in the village.
Follow the road as it climbs steeply out of the village. Over the climb, the road descends rapidly in the next few minutes to another foot over the bridge across the river. The river here tumbles over a gorge in a furious roar.
Across the bridge, carry on the road as you catch your first sight of the Mutso towers. They are impressive against the skyline.
It takes another half hour to the final checkpost, which is also a road junction for the road from the Ardoti village. The Andaki river meets the Khoniskhali river at this spot too.
At the checkpost, you’ll be asked for your passport and the trek pass for one last time. The process will take a bit of time because the guards need to enter your details in their records. So expect to spend around 15 mins or so here. If the group size is more then it could take longer.
The Mutso village is a ten mins walk further on. Just before the village, a stream cuts across the road. A campsite just before the stream is on the left of the road, just above the river.
The Mutso village isn’t much, but a collection of 4-5 houses, most of which double up as restaurants. You can talk to the eateries here who can get you a taxi for approx. GEL 112 to Shatili. Usually, no taxis ply here, so they need to be called from Shatili.
The real Mutso village is up in the ruins about 150 meters above the village. There is a clear trail that starts from the road to the ruins. Keep aside an hour or two to visit the ruins of Mutso, now a heritage site restored.
Continuing on the trek, it is better to continue walking as the road gets into a lovely deep valley lined by tall cliffs all along to Anatori 10 km away. The trail along the Andaki river is a flattish walk with the scenery making very interesting changes now and then. There is rarely a dull moment.
About 3.5 km into the road, there is a lovely camping ground beside the road. Further on the lookout for an interesting rural Georgian farming settlement roughly one hour into the walk.
About a kilometre and a half before Anatori the road crosses a flat iron bridge to again get to the left of the river. As soon as you cross the river warm winds from the valley catch you head-on.
Anatori is not a village or a settlement. It is just a sharp curve on the road. At the turn, there is a signpost and a tourist information board about the history of the tombs of Anatori.
The tombs are just behind the signpost, so spend about ten minutes reading up and looking at a very historical sight. You can still see the bones inside the tombs. This is also the closest you’ll get to the Russian border on the trek which is less than a kilometre away, down the river.
Keep your eyes peeled, you’ll spot several border security guards manning the hills higher up on the other side of the river.
Continue on the road to Shatili which takes another half hour to forty minutes to get there. After a long while, you are going to be walking upstream along the Arghuni river.
The fortress of Shatili is impressive from a distance. As you draw closer, the guest houses of Shatili get into view.
At Shatili there are plenty of guesthouses to choose from. For more guest houses, cross the foot overbridge and continue along the road, past the fortress. These guest houses are usually not visible when you first view Shatili giving you the impression that your choices are few.
The Shatili fortress is a heritage site and the reason for people coming far and wide to visit. This ancient archaeological heritage needs time for exploration, so again, keep an hour for this. Shatili is breathtaking in its beauty — which is why it is in photographs of Georgia everywhere.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Drive from Shatili to Tbilisi
Drive distance: 150 km | Drop-off point: Freedom Square, Tbilisi | Drop-off time: 4 pm to 7 pm
It is a long 4½ hour journey over bad roads most of the way. The good part is the superb scenery all along, especially the stunning Datvisjvari pass. It is one last time you’ll see the green Georgian grassland.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
It is a long 4½ hour journey over bad roads most of the way. The good part is the superb scenery all along, especially the stunning Datvisjvari pass. It is one last time you’ll see the green Georgian grassland.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Atsunta Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate-Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 67.6 km in five trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,481 ft (6,100 ft to 11,581 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections on steep, uneven trails. Most days involve long hours of trekking.
Terrain:
You will be trekking for 6 to 9 hours per day, covering around 10-15 km daily. The approach to Atsunta Pass Base from Girevi stretches over more than 20 km.
The trek involves climbing up and down thousands of feet daily, with no easy sections.
The final push to Atsunta Pass is a relentless climb on rocky, exposed terrain. It tests both your strength and stamina.
Many sections on the Atsunta Pass consist of loose rocks and scree, making footing unstable and increasing the risk of slips and falls. There are sections where you must scramble over large rocks and boulders, which requires both balance and agility.
Some parts of the trail are not well-marked, so trekkers must rely on GPS or an experienced guide for navigation.
The high-altitude sections are completely exposed to the wind and weather, making it feel much colder than the actual temperature.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
The Caucasus Mountains experience rapid and unpredictable weather shifts. A sunny day can quickly turn into a storm with strong winds, rain, or snow.
Winds near Atsunta Pass can be very strong, making the ascent and descent more difficult.
In the summer, thunderstorms are common, making river crossings and exposed sections dangerous.
Certain areas can be covered in thick fog, making navigation difficult.
Day-time temperatures can range from 10°C to 20°C in the valleys but drop significantly at higher altitudes. Night-time temperatures at higher camps can drop below the freezing point, even in summer.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The trek begins at approximately 6,560 ft and ascends to 11,581 ft at Atsunta Pass. Although the elevation gain is spread out over 4 trekking days, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are very real at altitudes above 10,000 ft. It can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
There are no easy exit points once you're deep into the trek.
Turning back is often not an option, especially after you get close to the Atsunta Pass. The only option, then, is cross over the pass to the other side. However, crossing the pass in an emergency involving sickness or injury is easier said than done.
Helicopter evacuation is not always available due to weather conditions and logistics.
Closest Hospital to the Atsunta Pass Trek:
The closest full-service hospital is in Tbilisi, which is over 100 km away and takes several hours to reach by road. A small clinic is available in Shatili, but it has limited medical supplies and can only provide basic first aid.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Packing List
Things to take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Atsunta Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Atsunta Pass Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Atsunta Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Atsunta Pass Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
An insight into Georgian Culture
About people, language, and food
toggle accordion
Georgia is a Eurasian country, which means it sits right between Europe and Asia. It shares its border with Russia in the North, Azerbaijan in the Southeast, Armenia in the South and Turkey in the Southwest. Being at the crossroads of eastern and western civilisation, the country is a happy mix of eastern and western influences. It is seen in their architecture, culture and food.
Tbilisi, the capital
Tbilisi, Georgia’s capital, is a charming blend of modern and classical. On one hand, there are orthodox churches and monasteries, reflecting the country’s overwhelming Eastern Orthodox Christian population. On the other hand, there are casinos and clubs mushrooming across the city, signifying a fairly active nightlife.
The buildings you see, especially in Tbilisi’s old town, seem to be from old Soviet time. Yet, the moment you walk in, you see that interiors are entirely modern! All of these old buildings seems to have their interiors renovated, with their crumbling exteriors dating back to Russian imperial times. Old Tbilisi has narrow, cobbled streets that wind around the town, with stray cats flitting in and about.
On the trail to Atsunta Pass
In the mountains, the houses are simple stone houses. You find homes with fruit trees growing out of them. The sight of them fill you with warmth. On the trail, ancient ruins of stone towers and shrines are many, a remnant of an era gone by. They add to the charm of this trek.
The people
The people of Georgia are extremely hospitable, polite and friendly. They will often go out of their way to help you – even if you don’t share the language. There is also an abiding sense of integrity. They even get offended if you entertain the idea of them cheating you!
They are also extremely rooted – the people have a strong sense of belonging to Georgia and they take pride in their unique culture. They celebrate it! In the city, you will find multiple events centered around art, theatre, dance and music. You will see some of the music and dance on the streets. Our founders caught a folk performance (incidentally from the mountain folk of Tusheti, the region we trek in!) in the airport!
On the trail, the mountain folk are quite like the ones you find in the Himalayas. The locals love to host, feed you, regale with their stories of their life and culture.
Language
Most people speak Georgian, Russian in some places and very basic English. The owners of guest houses you stay at will converse with you in this basic English.
Georgian cuisine
Georgian cuisine has a healthy mix of vegetables and meat. Which means, there are a fair number of vegetarian dishes along with non-vegetarian dishes on the menu. Options for vegans, however, are difficult to find.
Expect bread and cheese with every meal, or cheese-filled breads or steamed dumplings with vegetables, meat and cheese. There are multiple varieties of cheese in their cuisine.
Eating together seems to be the norm. Food often comes in sharing plates and every serving is for at least 3-4 people. The portions are quite large. So come to Georgia with a healthy appetite!
The price of food seems to be quite standard, with very little difference between the regular and higher end restaurants. Say, if a meal costs you GEL 7 at a regular restaurant, the same dish will cost you about GEL 8 lari at a higher end restaurant. Expect the prices of food go higher up in the mountains.
Here are some special Georgian dishes you must try:
Khachapuri (Cheese-stuffed bread) **Recommended
Khinkali (Also called Totori in the Tusheti region) (Georgian Dumplings) **Recommended
Matsoni (Yogurt)
Lobiani (Bean-stuffed bread)
Chvishtari (Cheese corn bread)
Badrijani Nigvzit Roasted Eggplant (badrijani)
Lobio (Bean Soup)
Qababi (Kebabs) Grilled minced meat
Mtsvadi (Shashlik, meat skewers) Fire-roasted chunks of pork, salted.
Satsivi – Poultry (chicken or turkey) served with a thinned paste of walnut, garlic and herbs.
Mashed potatoes and lots of cheese!
Puri/Tonis Puri (Georgian Flatbread)
Of course, Georgia is famous for its wine! We recommend sampling some after your trek.
Also, we loved gorging on the locally grown fruits. They grow in abundance and cost lesser than normal food. Try the cherries, peaches and plums that thrive in trekking season.
Additional information:
– Most of the country follows a standard pricing. You can bargain only for your transport.
– There seems to be no culture of tipping. So you can just pay what you have been charged.
– Don’t try to pet the dogs in the mountains. The shepherd dogs are not friendly. They are trained to guard their flock and will attack you if they see you as a threat. The best thing to do when you find these dogs on trail is to wait for their owner/shepherd to come around, so you can go ahead.
Travel, visa, and flight information
Also includes info on how to reach the base camp
toggle accordion
For the Atsunta Pass trek, you have to reach Tbilisi, the capital of Georgia.
How to get a visa to Georgia (Photo, Document list)
For E-Visa
-Fill out your Visa application electronically
Link: https://www.evisa.gov.ge/GeoVisa/
You’ll need:
Passport
Photocopy of the bio-data pages of the passport and all the used pages.
Two recent photographs (3 x 4 cm)
Confirmed onward/return flight tickets
Personal bank statement of last six months
Personal Income Tax Return (ITR) copy.
Onward Visa.
Proof of accommodation arrangements
Receipt certifying payment for consideration of visa issuance.
Travel Insurance valid in Georgia.
Covering Letter from the applicant explaining the purpose of the visit.
Passport requirements:
Must have been issued within the last 10 years.
Must have at least three months of validity beyond the date of visa.
Must have at least 2 blank pages.
You need to send these documents along with a scanned copy of your passport & photograph to your travel agent or you can do it online.
Stamp Visa
For Stamp Visa, apart from the above steps, you need to make a profile
You’ll have to book an appointment and submit the above-mentioned documents along with your passport.
How to reach Omalo from Tbilisi
Tbilisi International Airport- Freedom Square metro station- Isani metro station- Central Bus stand, Tbilisi- Alvani- Omalo
From the Tbilisi International Airport, board a bus heading to Freedom square. It’ll take you around 45 to 60 mins. From the Freedom square metro station, board a metro for Isani. A short distance from Isani metro station, you’ll find buses heading to Central Bus stand of Tbilisi.
A Marshrutka (mini bus) leaves for Alvani (110 km; 3 hours) from the Central Bus Stand at 9.10 am. This being the only bus service to Alvani every day, make sure you reach Central Bus Stand well in advance.
The onward journey to Lower Omalo (72 km; 4½ to 5 hours) has to be completed in private SUVs, which usually wait at the Alvani bus stand. Hiring a SUV (4-6 seater) costs appox. GEL 225. You can cut down on your expenditure by sharing the SUV with other people heading to Omalo.
How to get to Tbilisi from Shatili
Shatili is a quaint village in the Caucasus mountains. Therefore, there are only two ways to reach Tbilisi- Bus and SUV.
Every Thursday and Sunday, a bus leaves for Tbilisi at 9.00 am. It costs GEL 28.
Alternatively, you can board an SUV that leaves every morning at 10 am. If you have other trekkers travelling to Tbilisi, hiring the entire SUV is an affordable option as it’ll cost about GEL 390-450.
Be prepared for a long 4½ hour journey either ways, with beautiful scenes making up for the bad roads along the way.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Where is the Atsunta Pass Trek? expand accordion
Atsunta Pass Trek is in Georgia. Georgia known until 1995 as the Republic of Georgia, is a country in the Caucasus region of Eurasia. It shares its border with Russia in the North, Azerbaijan in the Southeast, Armenia in the South and Turkey in the Southwest. The western part of Georgia is bounded by the Black Sea.
The trek starts from Omalo, a place in the heart of Tusheti National Park.
What are the places I can visit in Tbilisi? expand accordion
You can safely assume that you’ll be spending a 2-3 days in Tbilisi before and after the trek. In fact a lot of travellers spend a good amount of time here planning and prepping for their hikes in the countryside.
Depending on when you arrive in Tbilisi, you can safely plan to spend 2-3 days in Tbilisi. In fact we highly recommend you do
Spending a day each, before and after the trek in the Georgian capital will help you rest and recover before your journey further.
Moreover, Tbilisi is a beautiful city to spend some time in.
Situated at the crossroads between Europe and Asia, you’ll see how both continents have influenced its culture and history. The resulting cultural diversity that city has to offer is its biggest appeal.
Nowhere is the influence and the diversity more pronounced than in its architecture. No wonder CNN chose Tbilisi as a one of their 7 design savvy cities to watch out for in 2018 . And Lonely Planet featured Georgia as one of the top 10 countries to visit in 2018 in their Best in Travel publication.
There is no dearth of places to see or things to do in Tbilisi and you could go on for weeks exploring this city. But it’s also important to not try to do everything and exhaust yourself before you even begin.
So here’s what we recommend
Day 1
Start your exploration by visiting the Old Town which just the perfect place to get acquainted to Georgian history. Walk around the cobbled stone streets while observing the crumbling buildings and restored ones. You’ll be surprised by what you see around every corner. There’s always something new
Make your way to Freedom Square. What was earlier known as Beria Square and then Lenin Square was finally renamed to its current name in 1918 when the country declared its independence from the Russian empire.
The square also houses a monument of St George - the city’s patron saint.
Visit the Georgian Folk Art Museum which is stone’s throw away for a lesson in Georgian art and culture before moving on to the Sulphur bathhouses in the city.
Book yourself for an hour of sauna at these for anywhere between 90-120 GEL. There are cheaper ones available but they’re a bit rundown. You could also book a scrub and a massage if you fancy. Do note that the actually scrub you down so it might not be pleasant massage that you might expect.
Finally end your day at the Tbilisi Botanical Gardens. A short hike through these gardens which are more than 3 centuries old is perfect way to end your day.
Did you know?
Centuries ago discovered sulphur springs around Central Georgia and decided to build a city around them and Tbilisi was born. The city gets its name from old Georgian word T’bilisi - meaning warm place.
Day 2
Start your day at Sameba, also known as the Holy Trinity Cathedral. Built to mark 2000 years of Christianity, the church is the most noticeable monument in the city. At 101m it is the third tallest Eastern Orthodox cathedral in the world and is the main cathedral of Georgian Othodox Church.
From here make your way to Anchiskhati Basilica across the river. It is the oldest surviving church in Georgia and dates back to 6th century AD.
The Narikala Fortress is a short walk from here but we recommend the cable car to go up. Simply for the views that it offers. This ancient fortress was a Persian Citadel established in 4th century.
You can then walk down via Jumah mosque. It’s here you’ll see the diversity that we mentioned earlier. The mosque is located amid the sulphur bathhouses and down the road are a church and synagogue.
Finally walk back across the river via the Peace bridge and relax in Rike park. A great way to escape the buzz of the city while at the same time watching locals and tourists hangout alike.
What is the best time to do the Atsunta Pass Trek? expand accordion
The best time to do the trek is from July to September.
The unique geographical location of Georgia at the border of Europe and Asia, has blessed it with a variety of climatic conditions- ranging from dry & moderately humid subtropical climate in the plains to bitterly cold winters at the higher altitudes! However, the ideal time to trek in Georgia is summer, which sets in towards the end of June or beginning of July.
The snow in Greater Caucasus mountains starts melting in the summers, making the stunning passes accessible on foot. This, coupled with the lush green meadows nurtured by bountiful rain, makes sure you are in for a visual treat!
Towards August end to September, the meadows start transitioning from lush green to golden brown making it a different experience altogether.
What weather conditions can I expect on the trek? expand accordion
You will mostly have pleasant weather during day time and temperatures are known to drop to low single digits during the night, especially at higher campsites. We recommend carrying 3 layers of clothing for the trek- Quick-dry T-shirts, Fleece jacket & Padded/Down jacket besides Thermals.
The chart below gives you a good idea about the weather conditions during different months of the year in Georgia.
Where can I buy a SIM card and what do you recommend? expand accordion
SIM cards can be bought at the exit at Tbilisi International Airport. There are several SIM card options to choose from - Beeline, Geocell and Magti. Magti SIM cards are also available at several mobile stores inside the city.
What we recommend
We recommend using the Magti SIM card. It costs approx. GEL 18. With this you can make unlimited local calls, and use up to 5 GB data. This is enough to use google maps, and do some trek research, it will last for about 2 weeks.
Note: This will not be enough if you wish to watch videos. You can recharge the card with GEL 6 in order to increase your data limit.
What you need to buy a SIM Card
You will require a valid passport to purchase a SIM card. Multiple SIM cards can be bought with the same passport.
Other options
You could purchase a Global Pre Paid SIM card from Matrix. This SIM allows free incoming calls from about 80 countries, and 1 GB data per day, this costs about 45 USD for 28 days.
I'm a vegetarian. Are there enough food options for me? expand accordion
There is no shortage of food options in Georgia! Vegetarians and vegans will find their share of food too. Here are some options you could try -
1)Khachapuri (Cheese-stuffed bread)
2)Matsoni (Yogurt)
3)Lobiani (Bean-stuffed bread)
4)Chvishtari (Cheese corn bread)
5)Khinkali (Georgian Dumplings)
6)Badrijani Nigvzit Roasted Eggplant (badrijani)
7)Lobio (Bean Soup)
8)Qababi (Kebabs) Grilled minced meat
9)Mtsvadi (Shashlik, meat skewers) Fire-roasted chunks of pork, salted.
10)Satsivi - Poultry (chicken or turkey) served with a thinned paste of walnut, garlic and herbs.
11)Mashed potatoes and lots of cheese!
12)Puri/Tonis Puri (Georgian Flatbread)
Do I have to carry cash or carrying Credit/Debit card is enough? expand accordion
We recommend carrying both cash and cards. In cities like Tbilisi, you can easily swipe your credit/debit cards in stores and restaurants. But once you leave Tbilisi, you can only use cash.
The best thing to do is to carry a Travel card. You can apply for one from your bank before you leave your hometown. Travel cards allow you to carry any foreign currency, and are pin protected just like your credit/debit card. You can use them at any shops that accept Visa/ Mastercards, and also to withdraw cash at ATMs. The advantage over debit/credit cards is that you don’t have to pay the 2- 5% transaction fee that is charged when you use your international debit/ credit card. It can also be reloaded at anytime online.
You will find several ATMs in Tbilisi where you can withdraw cash. Withdrawal charges are very minimal.
If you plan to travel out of cities, make sure to carry enough loose cash with you. It is hard to find ATMs once you leave the city. We advise you to carry a minimum of 600 GEL when you come with Indiahikes for the Atsunta pass trek.
If you’re trekking on your own, carry at least GEL 1,500 loose cash for transport and food.
What are the best places to convert currency? expand accordion
When you land at Tbilisi airport, you will find Currency Exchange Kiosks. You can exchange your currency here. There are also many Currency exchange booths in the city, one almost every 500 metres or so. Outside the city, you may not find currency exchange booths. So convert your cash to GEL before you head out.
Based on currency rankings, the most popular exchange rate is for USD to GEL. This is followed by Euro, Turkish Lira, Pound sterling, and Russian Ruble. These are the most widely accepted currencies in Georgian exchange booths. Compare the exchange rates in a few booths, you may get a better deal in some than in others.
For exchanges, you will be required to show your passport. Keep it with you always.
Are foreign currencies accepted in Georgia? expand accordion
Only a few establishments accept Euros or US Dollars directly. So it’s always best to deal with GEL. It’s easier too as you don’t have to mentally calculate everytime you pay!
What are the accommodation options available in Tbilisi? expand accordion
Tbilisi is a big city and finding a neighbourhood to base yourself can be quite a task. But there is no cause for worry. The city has an extensive public transport system in its metro lines and bus route network. So, moving around the city shouldn’t be a problem irrespective of where you set yourself for a few days.
The best neighbourhoods to place yourself would be the ones around Freedom square or somewhere close by. Tbilisi Old Town, Avlabari, Rustavali, Vera, Marjanishivli are all within 20-25 minutes (some a lot lesser) of walking distance from old town.
There are plenty of hostels around Freedom square where you can find a dorm bed for about 22-45 GEL. Hostelworld.com is the best place to search for such hostels.
Another great option is looking for BnBs. The best thing about BnBs is being able to connect with the locals. At the same time you have your own space and flexibility that comes with staying in a homely environment rather than in a hotel. AirBnB is the go-to place to check out some cool and quirky accommodation options. You’ll get some fantastic bed-and-breakfast choices between 80-120 GEL approximately.
And then finally there are plenty of hotels, right from budget to boutique to upmarket luxury. Booking.com is as good a place as any to find one that fits the bill.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.