Bali Pass Trek 2026 | India’s Iconic High-Altitude Pass Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Bali Pass Trek
A Grand Pass Crossing High on Adventure
Need help with planning the trek? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors.
If you are planning a trek, our expert team of Trek Advisors can help you choose the right one. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?", please get in touch. Request A Callback
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Kotgaon: Overlooking terraced fields and traditional homes of Kotgaon, this is one of our most picturesque community campuses.
The Most Intimate View of Mt. Swargarohini: The closest you can get to the legendary Mt. Swargarohini. At Odari, watch dawn's first light touch its peak.
Trekking in the Ruinsara Valley: Follow Tenzing Norgay’s footsteps through the legendary Ruinsara Valley — a historic mountaineering route to Bandarpoonch and Kalanag. Witness Ruinsara Tal and its stories.
Knife-Edge Ridge to Bali Pass: Traversing the narrow Narma Kandi Ridge is like walking on a knife-edge. This is your approach to Bali Pass with Swargarohini rising right in front of you.
A Grand Pass-Crossing High on Adventure
Honestly, Bali Pass doesn’t need much of an introduction. It’s a high-altitude adventure that’s on every trekker’s bucket list. At 16,207 ft, it’s also one of the highest treks we run at Indiahikes.
Bali Pass is one of the most thrilling pass-crossing adventures in the Indian Himalayas. It connects the serene Har Ki Dun valley with the revered Yamunotri region. From raw Himalayan beauty to incredible mountaineering legacy, it’s hard for any other trek to live up to the adventure of the Bali Pass.
play video
Your trek starts at the ancient village of Kotgaon. You then trek through timeless settlements of the Har ki Dun Valley before following a glacial stream– the Ruinsara Gad– to its glacial origins. You arrive in a breathtaking alpine setting, surrounded by the glaciers of the legendary Swargarohini massif. It towers before you like a giant wall of ice. When the first light of dawn touches its peak, it’s a moment that stays with you forever. At the Advanced Base Camp, you camp at a staggering altitude of over 15,000 ft. That’s like camping on top of Rupin Pass or Buran Ghati. The thrill is unmatched. Then comes the most thrilling part — the day you cross the pass. The approach takes you along a narrow, knife-edge ridge, with views of Garhwal’s most iconic peaks — Swargarohini, Bandarpoonch, Kalanag, and many more. The climb to the top is steep and challenging, and you can’t stop being vigilant for even a second. But don’t think the adventure ends there. The descent to Lower Damini is just as intense, taking you across a long, tricky boulder field that demands focus till the very end.
Read more
expand overview
Your trek starts at the ancient village of Kotgaon. You then trek through timeless settlements of the Har ki Dun Valley before following a glacial stream– the Ruinsara Gad– to its glacial origins. You arrive in a breathtaking alpine setting, surrounded by the glaciers of the legendary Swargarohini massif. It towers before you like a giant wall of ice. When the first light of dawn touches its peak, it’s a moment that stays with you forever. At the Advanced Base Camp, you camp at a staggering altitude of over 15,000 ft. That’s like camping on top of Rupin Pass or Buran Ghati. The thrill is unmatched. Then comes the most thrilling part — the day you cross the pass. The approach takes you along a narrow, knife-edge ridge, with views of Garhwal’s most iconic peaks — Swargarohini, Bandarpoonch, Kalanag, and many more. The climb to the top is steep and challenging, and you can’t stop being vigilant for even a second. But don’t think the adventure ends there. The descent to Lower Damini is just as intense, taking you across a long, tricky boulder field that demands focus till the very end.
But there is a softer side to Bali Pass, too.
You start by walking through forests and the timeless villages of Osla and Gangad. Then, the trail opens up into the vast alpine meadows of Devsu Thach. You follow a glacial stream to its source– a hidden high-altitude glacial lake. It’s rare to find a trek that combines culture, landscapes, and adventure the way Bali Pass does. That’s what sets it apart.
Bali Pass is not an easy trek. It requires serious preparation and experience in high-altitude trekking. But for those who take on the challenge, the adventure and grandeur on offer are simply unmatched.
5 Reasons Why We Love the Bali Pass Trek
1) Ancient Villages of Osla and Gangad
The trek begins with a walk through the villages of Osla and Gangad, which feel like a step back in time. These ancient villages are known for their unique culture, traditional wooden houses, and beautiful temples. The Himachali architecture of the temples is fascinating, and the stories and folklore of the region make this part of the trek very special.
2) Meadows of Devsu Thach
Devsu Thach is a beautiful meadow surrounded by tall trees, with the majestic Swargarohini and Kalanag peaks in the background. It’s a peaceful spot that feels straight out of a postcard. Camping here is a highlight of the trek, with the vast meadow offering a perfect place to relax and take in the beauty of nature.
3) The Trail to Ruinsara Lake
The journey from Devsu Thach to Ruinsara Lake is one of the most scenic parts of the trek. The trail winds through a narrow valley, with the Ruinsara River flowing alongside. Along the way, you’ll see colourful alpine flowers and untouched landscapes. The lake itself is calm and pristine, surrounded by high mountains. It’s a place that makes you feel completely at peace.
4) Views of the Swargarohini Massif
We often talk about Swargarohini on the Har Ki Dun trek. But truth be told, the grandest views of this massif are from the Bali Pass trail. At Odari, you’re already at its base — it stands before you like a towering wall of ice. And it stays with you until you cross the pass and descend towards Yamunotri. If the weather is kind, you’ll see the first light of day touch its peak — a moment that stays etched in your memory long after the trek ends.
5) Thrill of the Bali Pass Crossing
Crossing the Bali Pass is an adventure like no other. The approach is steep and challenging, with snow-covered slopes in the pre-monsoon season and rocky terrain in the post-monsoon months. Standing at the pass, you’re rewarded with panoramic views of the Bandarpoonch, Kalanag, and Swargarohini peaks. It’s a moment of pure joy and accomplishment.
At Indiahikes, we believe the Bali Pass Trek is one of the most thrilling high-altitude treks in Uttarakhand. It’s a perfect blend of natural beauty, adventure, and cultural richness. It’s not for the faint-hearted — but the rewards are just as big as the challenge.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Bali Pass : Take on the adventure of trekking to Bali Pass, one of the most thrilling pass crossings in the country, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Kotgaon Community Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Kotgaon on Day 1 to packed lunch on Day 8
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1200 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) and return cost is ₹1400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Bali Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Bali Pass - Ruinsara Tal trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this chart to know how much altitude you would gain/lose every day on the Bali Pass trek.
Day 1
Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Distance: 195 km | Duration: 10-11 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Pick up Time: 6.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Kotgaon
Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon. The cost is Rs.1200/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Pick-up time: 6.30 am. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Kotgaon to Taluka drive then Taluka to Chilurgad trek
Drive Distance: 12 km | Drive Duration: 1-hour drive
Trek Distance: 11 km trek | Trek Duration : 7-8 hour trek | Altitude gain: 6,520 ft to 8,160 ft
Day 3
Chilurgad to Devsu Thach
Trek distance: 6 km | Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 8,160 ft to 9,795 feet
Day 4
Devsu Thach to Ruinsara Tal
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 9,795 ft to 11,715 ft
Day 5
Ruinsara Tal to Thanga
Trek distance: 3 km | Duration: 3 hours | Altitude gain: 11,715 ft to 13,080 ft
Day 6
Thanga to Advanced base camp via Odari (Bali Pass Base Camp)
Trek distance : 5 km | Duration : 5-6 hours | Altitude gain: 13,080 ft to 15,100 ft
Day 7
Advance Base Camp to Lower Damini via Bali Pass
Trek distance: 14 km | Duration: 9-10 hours | Altitude loss: 15,100 ft to 10,080 feet via 16,207 feet (Bali pass)
Day 8
Lower Damini to Janakichatti to Dehradun
Trek distance: 6 km | Trek Duration: 1 hour
Drive Distance: 169 km | Driving time: 8 hours | Altitude loss: 10,080 ft to 8,270 ft
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Drive from Janakichatti to Dehradun. The cost is Rs.1400/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 9
Buffer Day
If Buffer day is used, trekkers will have to pay Rs 2100 +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day. This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
You’ll be back in Dehradun by 8 pm. Please factor in the buffer day in your travel plans – book your onward journey from Dehradun only after 9 pm on Day 9.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Previous
Next
Day 1: Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Duration: 9-10 hour drive from Dehradun
Kotgaon, the base camp for this trek, is a small but pretty village with 250 houses. A few dhabas and shops make up the commerce scene in Kotgaon. In peak season, it is usually bustling with trekking activity as it is the base camp for many treks – Kedarkantha , Har Ki Dun , Bali Pass , and Borasu Pass . The village offers a beautiful view of the sun setting behind the greater Himalayas. The peaks of Swargarohini shimmer in the evening sun, standing tall over the ridges beyond Kotgaon.
The drive will take you through Nainbagh, Naugaon, Purola, Jarmola, and Mori Naitwar (a left turn from Naitwar will lead you to Dhaula, which is the base camp for Bharadsar lake ), and finally Kotgaon.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
Kotgaon, the base camp for this trek, is a small but pretty village with 250 houses. A few dhabas and shops make up the commerce scene in Kotgaon. In peak season, it is usually bustling with trekking activity as it is the base camp for many treks – Kedarkantha , Har Ki Dun , Bali Pass , and Borasu Pass . The village offers a beautiful view of the sun setting behind the greater Himalayas. The peaks of Swargarohini shimmer in the evening sun, standing tall over the ridges beyond Kotgaon.
The drive will take you through Nainbagh, Naugaon, Purola, Jarmola, and Mori Naitwar (a left turn from Naitwar will lead you to Dhaula, which is the base camp for Bharadsar lake ), and finally Kotgaon.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Kotgaon to Chilurgad via Taluka
Drive Duration: 1-hour drive | Drive Distance: 12km
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours trek | Trek Distance: 11 km trek
Altitude gain: 6,520 ft to 8,160 ft
GPS Coordinates of Chilurgad: N 31°06.720, E 078 °19.965
There is a road that connects Kotgaon with Taluka. This 12 kilometre-long journey may be covered by hiring a local jeep (subject to the condition of the road as this is a landslide-prone route, often closed during monsoon). The trail is almost a level walk going through 10 to 11 mountain bends.
On the way, three major streams are gushing down the road, almost submerging certain sections of the road. The hike is scenic, going past a series of wild roses, irises and bamboo, chestnut and deodar trees. Around 2 km before Taluka, there is a campsite beside a stream. Camp here in case there is not enough time to trek till Seema.
Taluka village is a small one, centred on concrete houses that look out of sync with the village architecture seen at Kotgaon, Osla, Gangad etc. There is a GMVN Guest House for accommodation. The dhaba food here is very basic.
Read More
There is a road that connects Kotgaon with Taluka. This 12 kilometre-long journey may be covered by hiring a local jeep (subject to the condition of the road as this is a landslide-prone route, often closed during monsoon). The trail is almost a level walk going through 10 to 11 mountain bends.
On the way, three major streams are gushing down the road, almost submerging certain sections of the road. The hike is scenic, going past a series of wild roses, irises and bamboo, chestnut and deodar trees. Around 2 km before Taluka, there is a campsite beside a stream. Camp here in case there is not enough time to trek till Seema.
Taluka village is a small one, centred on concrete houses that look out of sync with the village architecture seen at Kotgaon, Osla, Gangad etc. There is a GMVN Guest House for accommodation. The dhaba food here is very basic.
From Taluka, next to Forest Guest House, the trail descends to the river valley of Supin and continues through a series of forests on your left as the river remains on your right. This shepherd trail goes along the river on a level walk. Around 10 minutes into the hike, you will see the first cemented bridge on a small stream. Another 15 minutes of level walk will have you reach another bridge, this time a wooden one. These two spots are conducive to filling up drinking water.
From here, walk by a series of gradual descends for 15 minutes, until you see a small clearing next to the river. This is an option for setting up an emergency camp if need be. Another 10-15 minutes later, you see a section where you climb down, meeting the Supin’s tributary that flows on your right side. Look for a wooden bridge that can be used in crossing this river, just below Datmir village.
After crossing the tributary, there is a short climb of less than a minute until you reach a camping ground. From here, facing the inside of the valley, locate two trails, one moving up and the other going straight ahead. Take the one that goes straight ahead.
The trail will now deteriorate, owing to a series of landslide-prone sections adjacent to the Supin River. Around 15 minutes of level walking later, you reach a land cleared by shepherds to set up temporary night shelters. The trail moves up with a series of gradual climbs followed by level walks. Around 10 minutes into the hike, look out for your first landslide-prone section. You may have to come down the river and cross the section that has caved in.
After 20 minutes of similar walking, spot a river crossing option via a wooden bridge over the Supin River. Ignore it and proceed straight ahead. After five minutes, there will be the first section of a steep incline trail in a zig-zag formation. This section will take about 15-20 minutes to cover. During the rainy season, expect this trail to be completely covered in mud. The trail now will relax with a series of level walks till you see a big stream coming down the hill on your right, over a wooden bridge crossing.
The trail picks up a little altitude as you once again enter the forested cover with a series of ascents and level walks. After 30-40 minutes of easy walk, look for an old village setting across the river on your left. This is Gangad village. After another 20 minutes of level walk, take a diversion towards the right side, till you reach a dhaba next to a wooden bridge crossing.
Behind the dhaba is a small hut where locals use the momentum of water to run a mechanical turbine that grinds cereal into flour. Those who want to camp at Osla may cross a wooden bridge to get to the other side of the mountain, left of Supin River and then trek straight along the river till they reach Osla. To reach Seema, one has to trek straight up by remaining at the true right of the river, all the way to Seema. There are a few steep ascents but are not in continuity, as the trail relaxes giving certain sections of level walks.
The landscape and condition of the terrain will remain like this for an hour and a half. Look for cemented houses built across a series of barley and wheat fields towards your right. The ground next to the cemented house is Chilurgad. One can camp here for the night as there is no spot available in Seema for camping.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Chilurgad to Devsu Thach
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 6 km
Altitude gain: 8,160 ft to 9,795 feet
GPS Coordinates: N 31°07.442, E 078 °23.042
Moderate-difficult. Steep ascent all the way. The terrain is rocky in many parts.
Start early in the morning, taking the trail going ahead from the campsite. Pass a cemented bridge and take the trail going ahead. Observe Osla wooden bridge towards your right over Supin River, which goes to Osla village. The trail is a well-defined levelled one, with few gradual ascents.
After 20 minutes of trekking, you will reach Seema. Pass a series of dhabas and GMVN and Forest Guest Houses in Seema. A 200 metre-long brisk walk will have you pass another bridge, crossing over River Supin. Do not cross over.
Take the trail going down, with River Supin on your left as you bypass the bridge. Ensure you do not take the trail ascending from here. Note that from here onwards, the trail gradually ascends as you near the entry point of Ruinsara Valley. Pass by a series of streams and landslide zones.
Read More
Start early in the morning, taking the trail going ahead from the campsite. Pass a cemented bridge and take the trail going ahead. Observe Osla wooden bridge towards your right over Supin River, which goes to Osla village. The trail is a well-defined levelled one, with few gradual ascents.
After 20 minutes of trekking, you will reach Seema. Pass a series of dhabas and GMVN and Forest Guest Houses in Seema. A 200 metre-long brisk walk will have you pass another bridge, crossing over River Supin. Do not cross over.
Take the trail going down, with River Supin on your left as you bypass the bridge. Ensure you do not take the trail ascending from here. Note that from here onwards, the trail gradually ascends as you near the entry point of Ruinsara Valley. Pass by a series of streams and landslide zones.
Around 30 minutes into the hike, you will cross a series of huge boulders as you enter Ruinsara Forest. The trail from here ascends sharply over the boulders. Leaving the river below you, climb up briskly as you near the point from where the trail takes a right. This is the point from where you will be able to see Osla village behind you for the last time, as you enter the Ruinsara Valley.
Another 30 minutes of a level walk later, you will enter the meadows of Devsu Thach. Follow the trail going from the centre of the meadow surrounded by tall trees all around. Devsu Thach is approximately 2 km in length and is a delightful walk.
On your left, observe Har Ki Dun Valley, below which is the confluence of Har Ki Dun and Ruinsara rivers. Walk for another 15 minutes till you reach the last section of the pasture land.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Devsu Thach to Ruinsara Tal
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 10 km
Altitude gain: 9,795 ft to 11,450 ft
GPS coordinates: N 31° 04.831, E 78° 27.499
From Devsu Thatch, look for a forest trail descending sharply towards the Ruinsara river below. The descent is rapid and steep. Around 15 minutes and 100 meters of careful descent later, you reach a wooden bridge that crosses over River Ruinsara. Observe the Ruinsara Valley towards your right. Cross the bridge and take the trail going inside the valley, with the river on your right.
The next 45 minutes of the trail is a series of level and gradual ascents over boulders and patches of pasture land next to the river. Observe a cemented hut ahead of you. This is a good spot for camping or taking a break for lunch.
The condition of the trail deteriorates rapidly from here forth as you trek towards the interiors of the valley. Pass through three mountain bends, after which you’ll pass through a series of landslide zones. The trails have been completely or partially broken in these sections. Take great care in crossing these sections.
Read More
From Devsu Thatch, look for a forest trail descending sharply towards the Ruinsara river below. The descent is rapid and steep. Around 15 minutes and 100 meters of careful descent later, you reach a wooden bridge that crosses over River Ruinsara. Observe the Ruinsara Valley towards your right. Cross the bridge and take the trail going inside the valley, with the river on your right.
The next 45 minutes of the trail is a series of level and gradual ascents over boulders and patches of pasture land next to the river. Observe a cemented hut ahead of you. This is a good spot for camping or taking a break for lunch.
The condition of the trail deteriorates rapidly from here forth as you trek towards the interiors of the valley. Pass through three mountain bends, after which you’ll pass through a series of landslide zones. The trails have been completely or partially broken in these sections. Take great care in crossing these sections.
Depending upon the conditions, one may have to use ropes for crossing over the broken bends. These sections are consistent for another hour and a half till you reach a waterfall on your left side. Descend the trail and pass the waterfall section. Once crossed, the trail again ascends sharply as you leave the last bend and enter a series of meadows covered with glacial snow and scree. Walk over this ridge carefully.
In a few minutes, you’ll come across a vast meadow with birch forests forming a background. The Untigad campsite is another 30 minutes' walk from here. There is a small river crossing over a tributary of Ruinsara here. The crossing is fairly simple. Once crossed, walk straight and re-join the trail that is next to River Ruinsara. Look for a makeshift bridge over the river. The ground towards the left of this bridge is Untigad.
From here a 45 min hike takes you to Ruinsara Tal. The trail to the lake goes inside the birch forest towards the true left of the river. Ensure you do not meander towards the right. Once you leave the forest behind, cross a boulder zone till you see a hut on your right ahead. Walk towards the hut. Observe Ruinsara Lake below you towards the left. The lake is surrounded by meadows where one can camp. Swargarohini ranges are behind the mountain ridge next to the lake and are not visible from here.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Ruinsara Tal and further to Thanga
Trek Duration: 3 hours | Trek Distance: 3 km
Altitude: Approximately 12,000 ft
GPS Coordinates of Ruinsara Tal: N 31° 04.831, E 78° 27.499
The day starts with a 10-minute descent to reach the riverbed. Once at the river cross it by making a human chain. Mind you, the water would be ice cold.
Some rest, therefore, is a must to warm-up your body. And also to prepare yourself for the next 40-50 minutes of steep ascent. Once at the top, take another breather.
Have some water while gazing at the mountains full of rhododendrons to your right. While the river, you crossed earlier gushes down. Also, look out for some more views of Swargarohini 2 and 3.
Read More
The day starts with a 10-minute descent to reach the riverbed. Once at the river cross it by making a human chain. Mind you, the water would be ice cold.
Some rest, therefore, is a must to warm-up your body. And also to prepare yourself for the next 40-50 minutes of steep ascent. Once at the top, take another breather.
Have some water while gazing at the mountains full of rhododendrons to your right. While the river, you crossed earlier gushes down. Also, look out for some more views of Swargarohini 2 and 3.
From here it is another hour of hike to the campsite. You will reach the campsite by 11:30 after that you will have the whole day to relax your muscles and mind so that you can be ready for the next two most difficult days of this trek.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Thanga to Advanced base camp via Odari (Bali Pass Base Camp)
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance : 5 km
Altitude gain: 13,080 ft to 15,100 ft
GPS Coordinates of Bali Pass A.B.C: N 31°02.482, E 078 °26.837
Today is a light day with a promise of great views of the entire Ruinsara and Kyarkoti Valley. Cross the bridge from your campsite and take the landslide-prone trail on your left. The mountain ridge is completely broken as you ascend through a maze of boulders. It takes 20 minutes to cross this till you reach the level ground and can see a tributary of Ruinsara River passing on your left.
Look for a suitable spot for the river crossing. It is advisable to start early so that the depth of water is not high. There is no makeshift bridge and one may have to boulder hop across this tributary. A rope can be handy as well, though not necessary. Once you’ve crossed, take the trail going straight towards the snow moraine that lies ahead, keeping Ruinsara River on the left.
Treat yourself to the beautiful Swargarohini ranges that are completely visible for the first time. You’ll see the first patches of snow in the meadows ahead. Cross over these meadows and move to the right side of the valley as you start gaining considerable altitude. The steepness of the climb gradually increases as you enter the snow line. The snow is slippery here and a micro spike/crampon is very handy in this section.
Read More
Today is a light day with a promise of great views of the entire Ruinsara and Kyarkoti Valley. Cross the bridge from your campsite and take the landslide-prone trail on your left. The mountain ridge is completely broken as you ascend through a maze of boulders. It takes 20 minutes to cross this till you reach the level ground and can see a tributary of Ruinsara River passing on your left.
Look for a suitable spot for the river crossing. It is advisable to start early so that the depth of water is not high. There is no makeshift bridge and one may have to boulder hop across this tributary. A rope can be handy as well, though not necessary. Once you’ve crossed, take the trail going straight towards the snow moraine that lies ahead, keeping Ruinsara River on the left.
Treat yourself to the beautiful Swargarohini ranges that are completely visible for the first time. You’ll see the first patches of snow in the meadows ahead. Cross over these meadows and move to the right side of the valley as you start gaining considerable altitude. The steepness of the climb gradually increases as you enter the snow line. The snow is slippery here and a micro spike/crampon is very handy in this section.
The route to Odari swerves to the right. You now enter a funnel valley. In an hour or two (depending upon the pace of the ascent), you will reach the top of the first ridge. From here, you can see a small snow ridge. Behind that ridge are the ice fields of Odari.
The views of Kyarkoti towards the left and Swargarohini massif behind you are outstanding. The trek from here to the B.C. is another 20-30 minutes of gradual ascent over slippery snow. Observe a level ice field with a few semi-frozen small glacial ponds in between. This is Bali Base Camp. Look for level ground for pitching the tents. In June and July tents will be pitched on hard snow.
If one wants to trek further, one can proceed ahead to the Advance Base Camp of Bali, which is another 2-3 hours on a snow ridge away.
Start very early in the morning, preferably around 4 or 5 am. One can start much earlier, depending upon prevailing weather conditions. Micro-spikes are required for today. There is also a section where ropes need to be fixed. Carry plenty of water as there are no water points for a long section of the trek.
Looking ahead, observe a series of five snow ridges that need to be traversed. Bali Pass summit is not visible from this section for the moment. It takes around 30-45 minutes to climb to the top of the third snow ridge as you gain an altitude of 200 meters.
From this spot, you will be able to see a snow ridgeline that connects to a steep climb over a series of snow ridges. The initial walk is a gradual walk over a level ridge. There is a huge accumulation of snow all around. It is wise to remain on top of the ridge and climb up via that route. No ropes are required here.
These sections are not technical but are long and tiring. After an hour or two (depending upon your pace) you will reach the top of the fifth ridge. From here, you can see Bali Pass Col towards your left ahead. Below the pass is the camping spot of A.B.C. Walk towards the left side, crossing as many as three snow dunes to reach the spot, from where the true ascent of Bali Col begins.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Advance Base Camp to Lower Damini via Bali Pass
Trek Duration: 9-10 hours | Trek Distance: 14 km
Altitude loss: 15,147 ft to 10,080 feet via 16,207 feet (Bali pass)
GPS Coordinates of Bali Pass: N 31°01.909, E 078 °26.392
GPS Coordinates of Lower Damini: N 30°59.919, E 078 °27.218
The climb to Bali Pass is steep and you might require an expert guide to find the route. There are no crevasses here, but there’s a lot of snow. An ice axe is useful here, to ensure sure footing. It is advisable not to take a straight line ascent route. Making scissor-bend trails is more practical.
The climb can take anything from 45 minutes to one and a half hours. As you reach the top of the mountain col, you will be able to see the Yamunotri side of the valley for the first time.
The Bali Pass summit is another 10 minutes of ascent towards the connecting ridge on your left. The last climb is again steep, but doable. The summit of the Bali pass has enough space for a large group of 30-40 people to assemble.
Read More
The climb to Bali Pass is steep and you might require an expert guide to find the route. There are no crevasses here, but there’s a lot of snow. An ice axe is useful here, to ensure sure footing. It is advisable not to take a straight line ascent route. Making scissor-bend trails is more practical.
The climb can take anything from 45 minutes to one and a half hours. As you reach the top of the mountain col, you will be able to see the Yamunotri side of the valley for the first time.
The Bali Pass summit is another 10 minutes of ascent towards the connecting ridge on your left. The last climb is again steep, but doable. The summit of the Bali pass has enough space for a large group of 30-40 people to assemble.
Once you’re reached the Bali Pass summit, enjoy a clear 360-degree view of the Ruinsara and Yamunotri sides. One can see Bandarpoonch (White peak) and Kalanag (Black Peak) and also the logical route to Saptarishikund.
Look down towards the Yamunotri side for a connecting snow ridge that descends. This is from where you will descend. Fixed ropes need to be placed in the initial 60-70 metres. Care must be taken while descending. The second section of descent can be done by merely sliding down towards the A.B.C. site on the Yamunotri side.
Once down, observe snowfields descending on your right. There are multiple routes that one can take to descend from here. Moving down on soft snow can be done swiftly. After 15 minutes, you will reach the last point of the A.B.C. ridge. From here, there is another sharp descent down to base camp. Let an experienced team member find the best possible descent route from here. You will cross a few boulders over snow. Once this section is crossed, one can slide down to the B.C. From here, move briskly as you lose altitude. Another 30 minutes of brisk descent later, you will be required to traverse to the right side of the mountain ridge till you reach the pinnacle.
From here, you will be able to see the upper and lower Damini forest ridge below you. The descent from here is tricky, especially if there is snow. If the accumulation of snow is large, you may need to place ropes. The trails here are nonexistent and one has to descend sharply over huge boulders and snow. Look for land clearing 500 meters below you. This section is like a maze and the team must do this with extreme caution. It may take an hour or two to cross this section safely.
Once you enter the upper forest of Damini, rejoin a well-laid trail that now descends rapidly. There is no water source at the Upper Damini camping ground anymore. Hence, it is advisable to trek down to the lower catchment area inside the forest. The trek down is another 2-3 km, till you reach a small camping spot next to a stream. You have now reached the lower Damini camping spot. (One can also camp at the Base Camp location on the Yamunotri side of Bali Col, depending upon weather conditions.)
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Lower Damini to Janakichatti to Dehradun
Trek Duration: 1 hour | Trek distance: 6 km
Driving time: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 169 km
Altitude loss: 10,080 ft to 8,270 ft
Today is an easy day. Take the trail descending the lower Damini forest. The trail is well-defined and after 30 minutes of a steep descent, you will connect with the old Yamunotri trail. Here you’ll have to make a detour if you want to visit the Yamunotri temple . Otherwise, take a right and follow the trail that descends and connects with the new Yamunotri to Janakichatti pilgrim trail.
The trail from here is cemented and one can reach Janakchatti in a couple of hours. From Janakchatti, board a bus or a shared jeep to Dehradun or Barkot.
Read More
go to previous day Day 7
Today is an easy day. Take the trail descending the lower Damini forest. The trail is well-defined and after 30 minutes of a steep descent, you will connect with the old Yamunotri trail. Here you’ll have to make a detour if you want to visit the Yamunotri temple . Otherwise, take a right and follow the trail that descends and connects with the new Yamunotri to Janakichatti pilgrim trail.
The trail from here is cemented and one can reach Janakchatti in a couple of hours. From Janakchatti, board a bus or a shared jeep to Dehradun or Barkot.
go to previous day Day 7
How Difficult is the Bali Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 55 km in seven trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 9,600 ft (6,520 ft to 16,207 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. Most days involve long trekking durations. The pass crossing day is especially strenuous.
Terrain:
The steep ascent to Bali Pass requires help from an expert guide. While there are no crevasses, heavy snow makes an ice axe useful. Use a scissor-bend approach instead of a straight-line climb.
The famous knife-edge ridge leading to Bali Pass is a tricky traversal. With deep valleys on either side of the ridge, the walk can be nerve wracking.
The climb to Advance Base Camp is extremely steep and involves trekking on huge boulders.
The descent is extremely steep beyond the pass. The entire day from Advance Base Camp to Lower Damini across the Bali Pass is long and arduous.
The trail runs along rivers, requiring frequent crossings. Bridges may be washed away, needing a rope and pulley system.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
On the Bali Pass trek, snow is a distinct possibility, especially during the summer. With snow, the trek becomes even more challenging. Too much snow can make the pass inaccessible.
Rain can turn the trails slushy and difficult to navigate safely.
Kotgaon is one of our coldest base villages. Its unique location keeps Kotgaon in shade for a very long time even after sunrise, as a hill blocks the first light of the day.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
At 16,207 ft, Bali Pass is one of the highest treks we run at Indiahikes. Proper acclimatization is crucial for a successful trek.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The Bali Pass trek has two exit points. Before crossing the Bali pass, your best bet is to retrace your way back to Taluka and Kotgaon. After crossing the Bali Pass, you can descend from Lower Damini and exit at Janakichatti.
This means, in case there are any medical emergencies, you have to descend to Taluka or Janakichatti and then take a vehicle to the closest medical help.
From Taluka, you can hire a jeep to Purola. From Janakichatti, you can hire a jeep to Rajgarhi. Evacuation may take up to 24 hours since you are deep in the valley and the roads connecting Kotgaon, Purola, Janakichatti and Rajgarhi are notoriously bad.
Closest Hospital to the Bali Pass Trek:
For mild medical issues, the closest medical assistance can be found in Mori and then in Purola on the Kotgaon side. On the Yamunotri side, there is a Primary Healthcare Center at Janakichatti itself. However, these medical centers can only treat very basic injuries like simple fractures, sprains etc. However, for major medical emergencies, the nearest hospital is in Mussoorie or Dehradun – which is almost 6-7 hours away from both Kotgaon and Janakichatti.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Bali Pass Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to do the Bali Pass trek would be in the summer– May and June . The gradual transition of the trail from snow to greenery is something to behold. This coupled with the blooming rhododendrons, the possibility of witnessing the rare alpenglow phenomenon and the vibrant meadows make it one of the best times to do the trek.
Another good time to do the Bali Pass trek is in the post-monsoon and Autumn season — September to October . The trail is lush green in September, fresh from the monsoon outpour. As you move towards autumn, the region changes hues to dramatic yellows and oranges. You’ll also get the best views of mountains this season.
Bali Pass in Summer
Day time: Between 12 °C and 17 °C | Night time: Night time temperature: Will drop to zero
Presence of snow: If the winter season for the year has heavy snowfall, you can expect snow patches on the ridge for the first few weeks of May. The snow starts to recede with the meadows and flowers popping out.
No. of warm layers required: 3 layers
Bali Pass in Autumn
Day time: Between 10 °C and 14 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -3 °C.
Presence of snow: You can expect the last groups of November to witness the first spell of snowfall due to the western disturbances.
No. of warm layers required: 4 layers
Note
The crossing of Bali Pass is very much dependent on how much snow and the weather is for the day of the ridge crossing. In case of bad weather or the ridge not being safe to cross, the trek leader can take a call on returning.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Bali Pass Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Kotgaon is the base camp for your Bali Pass Trek.
Kotgaon is a picturesque village situated in the Mori Tehsil of the Uttarkashi district in Uttarakhand, India. Nestled in the upper Tons Valley, it offers stunning views of the surrounding Himalayan peaks, including the Swargarohini range. It is around 200 km from Dehradun and takes around 10 hours to reach by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 6.30 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities.
The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Kotgaon the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Kotgaon on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Kotgaon. You first need to reach Mori or Sankri and then take a shared jeep to Kotgaon.
Option 1: Dehradun to Sankri and Onwards to Kotgaon
There are three direct bus services from Dehradun to Sankri
The Private Buses depart at 5 AM and 6 AM while the Government Bus leaves Dehradun at 8 AM
Please note that all of them start from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 8-9 hrs to reach Sankri from Dehradun
From Sankri, it is just 5 km to Kotgaon. Even if you don’t get shared jeeps, you can hire private taxis to reach Kotgaon, without burning a hole in your pocket.
Option 2: Dehradun to Mori and Onwards to Kotgaon
There is one direct bus service from Dehradun to Mori
The Bus starts at 9 AM from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 6-7 hrs to reach Mori from Dehradun
From Mori, you get shared vehicles to Kotgaon. You can also hire a private taxi.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Bali Pass Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Bali Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Bali Pass Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Bali Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Bali Pass Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How long is the Bali Pass trek? expand accordion
The Bali Pass Trek covers around 55 km in 7 days. (9 days including the drive to and from the trek and buffer days). The altitude ranges from 6,397 ft in Kotgaon all the way to Bali Pass at 16,207 ft.
How difficult is the Bali Pass Trek? expand accordion
The Bali Pass trek is one the more difficult treks that Indiahikes conducts. The most difficult part of the trek is the crossing of the pass itself. There's usually excessive snow pre-monsoon, and the ridge is narrow. You also climb to 16,207 ft, which is high altitude. There are chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness though thetrail is designed such that your body has enough time to acclimatise to the surroundings.
How fit do I need to be for the Bali Pass Trek? expand accordion
Amidst the difficulty, you will experience views on the Bali Pass trek that you won’t find on any other treks. The Bali Pass Trek demands a certain amount of respect from trekkers. You need to be extremely fit to get the privilege to do this trek.
As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 30 minutes & 10 km in 62 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 30 km a week or 150 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Bali Pass Trek? expand accordion
Uttarkashi is the last town en route to Kotgaon where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Uttarkashi. However, cash does run out quickly at the Uttarkashi ATMs. Hence, Dehradun is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
What are washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
The guest houses at Kotgaon will have concrete toilets. On Trek days, toilet tents will be set up along each campsite. A toilet tent will have a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. There will be a room freshener as well. It’s the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild.
Please use plain toilet paper and refrain from using wet wipes since these are not biodegradable.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Bali Pass Trek expand accordion
You will get a Jio network at the base camp but scattered internet connectivity. However, you won’t find any network on the Bali Pass Trek
As per electricity, there are charging points on the basecamp but none on the trek.
How many months in advance should I book the Bali Pass trek? expand accordion
Given its difficulty, the Bali Pass Trek has an extensive selection process. It is advised to book this trek 3 months in advance.
How many trekkers are in a group? expand accordion
On the Bali Pass Trek, we usually take a maximum of 15 trekkers.
I am more than 55 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Difficult treks, you’re likely to trek around 12-20 km each day. Expect extremely steep ascents and descents. Expect maximum altitudes above 15,000 ft, which can go up to 19,000+ ft. Technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks, boulder and scree sections) are an everyday affair. Some sections can only be crossed with the help of our Technical Staff.
Difficult treks are the most demanding, which is why we take only those trekkers with prior trekking experience on them.
To do a difficult trek, target running 10 km within 60 minutes consistently . This will be possible only if you can run 5 km within 30 minutes comfortably before signing up for a difficult trek.
This fitness chart will help you get there by following the plan for 8 weeks (or 2 months) before the start of your trek.
You will receive a questionnaire asking for your current fitness level and high altitude experience. Only those who have prior high altitude trekking experience will be allowed to sign up for difficult treks.
If you’re above the age of 58 years, you’ll also need to submit your Treadmill Test within 7 days of completing your registration.
Is offloading available for Bali pass? expand accordion
No, there is no offloading for the Bali Pass trek.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.