Beas Kund Trek 2026 | A Trek to the Source of River Beas Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Callback
Beas Kund
A Trek to the Source of River Beas with Terrific Mountain Views
We've announced 2026 dates for the Beas Trek
Scroll down to view dates. If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click Here to Request A Callback
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Manali: Your trek begins at our Jungle Line campus — tucked inside dense deodar forests and apple orchards in the silent outskirts of Manali
Close View of Himachal’s Greatest Peaks : Friendship Peak, Shitidhar, Hanuman Tibba, Mukar Beh — you see them from base to summit. Camp amongst them at Lohali, a training ground for mountaineers.
The Grasslands of Bakar Thach and Dhundhi: Trek through grasslands spreading below towering peaks — grazing sheep, crisscrossing streams, and replete with wildflowers. Camp among them at Dhundhi.
Witness the Birth of River Beas: Witness the gushing Beas River take birth as a narrow stream from the still turquoise lake of Beas Kund. Climb a high ridge, with a sweeping aerial view of this lake’s glacial settings.
A Trek to the Source of River Beas with Terrific Mountain Views
You may know Beas Kund as a trek that takes you to the origin of the revered Beas River. And while the glacial lake is a big highlight, there’s another part of the trek that often goes unnoticed — the mountain setting it takes you through. Picture this. Grasslands flourish below the summits of the three biggest mountains around Manali. Hidden in these grasslands is the emerald lake from which the Beas emerges.
Right from the start of this trek, you’re walking at the base of towering mountain walls. These are offshoots of the Pir Panjal range, stretching from Kashmir into Himachal. Cliffs rise sharply on either side of the valley. You’re almost dwarfed by their presence.
play video
Talking of mountain views, the Lohali campsite is our favourite. It sits in a natural cauldron, tucked between two ridges. These ridges lead up to two of Himachal’s well-known peaks — the Friendship Peak and Mt. Shitidhar. Mountaineering institutes train here, introducing students to snow and ice craft in this dramatic setting. Just behind your camp, you see a high point on the ridge. That’s Lady Leg — base for the Friendship Peak expedition. On clear days, the Friendship Peak, Mt. Shitidhar, Hanuman Tibba, Mukar Beh and Shikar Beh are all visible from Lohali. The scale of the mountains around you is humbling.
Read more
expand overview
Talking of mountain views, the Lohali campsite is our favourite. It sits in a natural cauldron, tucked between two ridges. These ridges lead up to two of Himachal’s well-known peaks — the Friendship Peak and Mt. Shitidhar. Mountaineering institutes train here, introducing students to snow and ice craft in this dramatic setting. Just behind your camp, you see a high point on the ridge. That’s Lady Leg — base for the Friendship Peak expedition. On clear days, the Friendship Peak, Mt. Shitidhar, Hanuman Tibba, Mukar Beh and Shikar Beh are all visible from Lohali. The scale of the mountains around you is humbling.
From Lohali, the trail climbs steadily to a ridge. As you approach the top, the valley on the other side comes into view. That’s where you get your first glimpse of Beas Kund, an emerald lake cradled in a meadowy cauldron. Rocky faces of the Pir Panjal rise steeply all around it.
We take you a little further along the ridge to a special viewpoint. From here, you get the best aerial view of Beas Kund. Slender streams flow in and out of the lake, tumbling down mountain walls, forming waterfalls, and eventually joining the Beas. You even see the glaciers at the base of Hanuman Tibba. This contrast of a quiet lake set against these rugged mountains is striking.
But for all its grandeur, Beas Kund is not a difficult trek. Some climbs may feel challenging, but with the right preparation, even beginners can do it comfortably. In just four days, you walk through valleys, climb ridges, cross blooming meadows, and witness some of the finest mountain views of Himachal. All of this building up to reveal the revered origin of Beas.
If you're in Manali and are looking for a short but unforgettable Himalayan adventure, Beas Kund should be right at the top of your list.
5 Things We Love About the Beas Kund Trek
1) An Amphitheatre of Big Mountains
The Beas Kund trail takes you up close to some of Manali’s most iconic mountains. Peaks like Friendship Peak, Shitidhar, Ladakhi, and Hanuman Tibba rise dramatically above you, offering base-to-summit views that are rare to experience within just four days of trekking. Normally, such majestic sights are reserved for mountaineers after days of arduous climbing. On clear days, you might also spot distant peaks such as Mt Indrasan and Deo Tibba. These close-up views of the Pir Panjal range are one of the trek’s greatest highlights. It’s no surprise that mountaineering institutes use this trail as a training ground, introducing students to snow and ice craft in such an extraordinary setting.
2) Trekking Through Ancient Deodar Forests
The trek begins with a walk through dense deodar forests that feel like something out of a fairy tale. These towering, ancient trees create a cool, shaded path and set a serene atmosphere. Interspersed with the deodars are tall pine and maple trees, their leaves rustling in the wind. It’s remarkable to think that such a peaceful and pristine forest exists just 20 km from the bustling streets of Manali.
3) The Grasslands of Bakarthach and Dhundhi
Nestled below these towering peaks are the sprawling grasslands of Bakarthach and Dhundhi, two of the most beautiful spots on the trek. Bakarthach, a shepherd’s meadow, is dotted with grazing sheep and cattle, while tiny streams crisscross the vibrant green expanse. Dhundhi, your first campsite, is equally captivating. Here, the Beas River flows noisily on one side, while colourful flowers bloom in abundance on the other. It’s a vivid, energising start to the trek that sets the tone for what lies ahead.
4) Witnessing the Origin of Beas River
Trekkers realise that they are trekking to the origin of Beas River but we feel that most of them don’t understand that they actually also see this mighty river taking shape. It’s a narrow stream that flows out from Beas Kund. As it flows down, it’s joined by several other streams. Together they grow into the powerful river you see gushing past Manali. On the way to Beas Kund, you walk through lush green meadows nourished by these very tributaries. Since the trek runs during the monsoon, the meadows are alive with wildflowers in full bloom. You even wade across a few of these streams to reach your campsites. All along the route, you’re in the heart of the Beas Valley. You see the Beas taking shape. You witness the birth of a river that has shaped the culture, traditions, and everyday life of the Kullu Valley over ages.
5) The Cultural Importance of Beas Kund
The name Beas Kund carries a deep cultural significance, adding another layer to this trek. It is said that Rishi Vyas, who wrote the Mahabharata, used to bathe in this sacred lake. The name “Beas Kund” is believed to have been derived from his name, with "kund" meaning tarn.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Beas Kund : Take on a thrilling journey to Beas Kund, the source of River Beas, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from lunch at Palchhani Thatch on Day 1 to packed lunch at Lohali on Day 4 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹900 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Manali to Dhundi (₹1800 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at Palchan for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.1600 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Beas Kund - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Beas Kund trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Now
A route map of the Beas Kund trek
Day 1
Drive from Manali to Dhundi via Palchan. Trek from Dhundi to Palchhani Thatch
Drive Distance : 14 km | Drive Duration : 1.5 hours | Trek Distance : 1.5 km | Trek Duration : 1 hour
Altitude Gain : 9,317 ft to 10,134 ft
Leave from Beas Bridge, Manali , Manali at 8.30 am. Ensure you have had your breakfast before reaching the pickup point. En route, drop off your cloakroom bag, collect your rentals, and offload if you have opted for it, at Palchan . You will meet your trek leader here.
Indiahikes will arrange transport for the transfer from Manali to Dhundi. This pickup costs ₹900 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Manali to Dhundi (₹1800 for onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
You start the trek at Dhundi. From Dhundi, you will reach your first campsite at Palchhani Thatch by 2.30 pm and have lunch there.
Day 2
Palchhani Thatch to Lohali
Trek distance : 4 km | Trek Duration : 4-5 hours
Altitude gain : 10,134 ft to 11,050 ft
Day 3
Lohali to Beas Kund and Lady Leg and back to Lohali
Trek distance : 5 km | Trek Duration : 7-8 hours
Altitude gain : 11050 ft to 12,772 ft and back
Day 4
Lohali to Dhundi. Drive back to Manali
Trek distance : 4 km | Trek Duration : 4 hours
Altitude loss : 11050 ft to 9,317 ft | Drive back cost: Rs 3,600 per vehicle to be shared by trekkers
Indiahikes will arrange transport from Dhundi to Beas Bridge, Manali. The cost for this drop-off is ₹800 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Dhundi to Beas Bridge, Manali (₹1800 for onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Stop at Palchan to return rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage.
You will be back to Beas Bridge , Manali by 4 pm.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Drive from Manali to Dhundi. Trek from Dhundi to Palchhani Thatch
Drive Distance : 14 km | Duration : 1.5 hours | Cost : Rs 3,600 per vehicle to be shared by trekkers
Trek Distance : 1.5 km | Duration : 1 hour
9,317 ft to 10134 ft
Moderate ascent. Well-marked road followed by forest trails.
Leave from Beas Bridge Manali, at 8.30 am.
You will be driving along the Beas river to Solang and then to Dhundi. At Solang, you can witness the famous ski resort of Manali, which comes alive every winter. En route, drop your cloakroom bag and collect your rentals at Palchan. You will be walking along the roaring beas river on your left. After about 45 minutes of walking you will cross a stream. You will need help from the trek lead to cross this stream during peak monsoons. As soon as you cross the stream, take a right turn on the mountain. A few minutes of steep climbing will take you to your first campsite.
You reach your first campsite by 2.30 pm and have lunch there.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
Leave from Beas Bridge Manali, at 8.30 am.
You will be driving along the Beas river to Solang and then to Dhundi. At Solang, you can witness the famous ski resort of Manali, which comes alive every winter. En route, drop your cloakroom bag and collect your rentals at Palchan. You will be walking along the roaring beas river on your left. After about 45 minutes of walking you will cross a stream. You will need help from the trek lead to cross this stream during peak monsoons. As soon as you cross the stream, take a right turn on the mountain. A few minutes of steep climbing will take you to your first campsite.
You reach your first campsite by 2.30 pm and have lunch there.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Palchhani Thatch to Lohali
Trek distance : 4 km | Duration : 4-5 hours
10,134 ft to 11,050 ft
Moderate to steep ascent throughout the trek
Carry 2 liters of water from Dhundhi. The first water source is 0.7 km from Dhundi. It is a stream that you will be crossing. Fill your water bottles here as there is no water source available till you reach the next campsite.
The trail begins with a steep ascent as you head deeper into the valley. You'll find pine, birch and even some walnut trees.
Around an hour into the trail, there's a stream that you have to cross. This also serves as a good water source.
After crossing the stream the ascent continues followed by a steep descent. The trail is well marked with blue arrows painted on the boulders. So there's no possibility of getting lost.
Read More
The trail begins with a steep ascent as you head deeper into the valley. You'll find pine, birch and even some walnut trees.
Around an hour into the trail, there's a stream that you have to cross. This also serves as a good water source.
After crossing the stream the ascent continues followed by a steep descent. The trail is well marked with blue arrows painted on the boulders. So there's no possibility of getting lost.
Further, from here, around 10-15 minutes into the trail, spot a log bridge that connects to the
other side of the valley (i.e. Bakarthach campsite). This is just to get your bearings right. You will not be crossing the river at this point. Just stay on the same side of the river, on the right-hand side of the valley beside the Beas River.
As you go further you will observe that the tree line has ended and subalpine bushes start. Around 1.6 km into the trek, the entire valley opens up and you can see the boulder sections from where the Beas River flows. You will also be able to see an Ice Wall above the Boulder Sections.
Soon, the trail bends towards the right, into the valley. Once you're in the valley, you will see a stream flowing from the valley. Cross the stream and you have reached the next campsite Lohali.
Lohali is a scenic campsite surrounded by mountains, it makes an ideal camping spot. Your water source here is the stream which flows beside the campsites.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Lohali to Lady Leg to Beas Kund and back to Lohali
Trek distance : 5 km | Duration : 7-8 hours
Altitude gain: 11,050 ft to 12,772 ft and back
Steep ascent all the way to the summit
Carry 2 liters of water from Lohali as there is no water source on the trail.
Start early as you have to trek a height of around 1798 feet. With the distance being just around 1.6 km it’s a steep ascent to Beas Kund.
The trail is well-marked and quite relentless. But the view of the mountains and forests around keeps you company.
After around three hours of ascent, you will reach a meadow at an altitude of 12542 ft (3823m), this place is called Lady Leg, which also happens to be the summit camp of Friendship Peak. Rest here for a while and take some pictures. If the weather is clear, you'll get good pictures of Friendship Peak too.
Read More
Start early as you have to trek a height of around 1798 feet. With the distance being just around 1.6 km it’s a steep ascent to Beas Kund.
The trail is well-marked and quite relentless. But the view of the mountains and forests around keeps you company.
After around three hours of ascent, you will reach a meadow at an altitude of 12542 ft (3823m), this place is called Lady Leg, which also happens to be the summit camp of Friendship Peak. Rest here for a while and take some pictures. If the weather is clear, you'll get good pictures of Friendship Peak too.
As you reach the Lady Leg campsite you will see a trail going to the left side of the meadow which goes all the way up to the highest point, which is on a ridge. It is a 15-20 minute climb from the Lady Leg Campsite.
As you reach the ridge look for the lake in the distance.
Note that, you won't be trekking to the banks of the lake but you can enjoy the views of it from the ridgeline
On a clear day, you can catch a stunning view of Pir Panjal Range and Dhauladhar Range up close. Also major peaks like Hanuman Tibba, Shitidhar, Ladakhi and Friendship Peak stand majestically before you. On a really clear day, you can also see peaks like Deo Tibba and Indrasen down the valley.
After spending some time at the summit, retrace your way to Lohali.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Lohali to Dhundi
Trek distance : 4 km | Duration : 5-6 hours
Altitude loss: 11,050 ft to 9,317 ft
Easy. Mostly descending.
Today’s trek is an easy one, you get back to Dhundi through the route you came up from. It takes 5-6 hours to reach Dhundi.
Read More
go to previous day Day 3
Today’s trek is an easy one, you get back to Dhundi through the route you came up from. It takes 5-6 hours to reach Dhundi.
go to previous day Day 3
How Difficult is the Beas Kund Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 14.5 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 3,455 ft (9,317 ft to 12,772 ft). While most days are short and gradual, you’ll face steep ascents and descents on the third day of your trek. This alone pushes the trek to the Moderate Category
The Terrain:
The first two days are relatively easy. But the Lady Leg Day is when the real challenge begins. It includes a steep ascent and an equally steep descent. All in one day.
There is a distinct probability of getting lost on this trek. The trail disappears in the meadows on many occasions. So, it is risky to trek solo to Beas Kund if you are not well versed in the region.
In June, you might find unexpected snow patches in certain sections. This can make the trek trickier than usual.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
The Beas Kund trek is best done during the monsoon months—July, August, and September. That means rain is part of the experience. It might rain for a few minutes or go on for hours. And when it rains heavily, the trail can get very slushy.
If you're planning to go in late June, expect some snow patches too. They can make the trail a bit more difficult to navigate. Wear microspikes before stepping on hard snow to prevent slips and injuries. Use existing footholds. The Indiahikes team will guide you throughout..
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
You gain altitude quite rapidly on this trek. You start above 9000 ft elevation and camp above 10,000 ft on the first day itself. This can be strenuous for your body, especially if you travelled to Manali on the same day. So we recommend reaching one day earlier and getting enough rest.
The trek involves an altitude gain of 3,455 ft (9,317 ft to 12,772 ft) over four trekking days. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
In case of any emergency, you will need to return to the Dhundi roadhead . Manali is about an hour’s drive from Dhundi.
Closest Hospital to the Beas Kund Trek:
Mission Hospital in Manali is the closest one to Beas Kund in case of a medical emergency during the trek.
Address: Model Town, Siyal, Manali, Himachal Pradesh – 175131
Phone: +911902252379
Manu Diagnostics Center and Hospital is another option.
Address: Snowdrop Hotel building, Gompa Road, opposite Buddhist Monastery, Manali, Himachal Pradesh – 175131
Phone: +919418083587
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Beas Kund Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Beas Kund from mid-June to mid-July
Temperature in Summer: Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Snow / Rain in Summer: Despite it being summer, expect snow patches on the ground.
Number of warm layers recommended in Summer: 4 layers (cold is subject to wind, moisture and other factors.)
At the beginning of the season, around mid-June, you will find a lot of snow at Palchhani Thatch. The trek is just starting to emerge from the snow. During this time, you will find many traces of winter lingering on the trek.
The most prominent being a frozen Beas Kund, surrounded by snow. The ice begins to thaw only as July descends.
Even though the meadows are a highlight of this trek, they emerge only as the monsoon season deepens.
Beas Kund from mid-July to mid-August
Day time: Between 13 °C and 18 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of Snow / Rain: Snow has melted by mid-July. Expect heavy rain in the afternoon. Carrying a poncho is compulsory.
Number of warm layers recommended: 4 warm layers
As the season progresses into July, the blanket of snow starts lifting. You still find some snow on your final ascend to Beas Kund, especially in early July, but most snow on the trek has melted.
The frozen Beas Kund has also started melting in small concentric circles. Parts of it are still icy, but the ice is thinning. Meadows around the lake also start emerging as you pass mid-July.
Now, the monsoon is also at its peak. Rains become frequent and clouds usually glide in unannounced shrouding the lake and the trail.
Beas Kund from mid-August to September
Day time: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and 3 °C.
Presence of snow: The snow is gone, and the terrain is replaced with lush greenery.
Number of warm layers recommended in Autumn: 4 warm layers
Like a climax, the last leg of the season is set up on a grand stage with lush meadows.
The snow is gone. Beas Kund flaunts a deep royal blue colour with green grass and flowers blooming around it. It is a sight to behold.
Monsoon is receding now and blue skies have started peeping out. It’s a great time to catch the arresting views of the underrated mountains of Himachal Pradesh.
When you camp at Lohali, you see the Dhauladhar range rising tall with the seven sisters, Hanuman Tibba, Mt Manali, and Shitidhar among many others. These views sparkle under the brilliant blue sky as autumn emerges in September.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Beas Kund Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Your trek to Beas Kund begins right from the heart of Manali . The most prominent town in the Kullu District of Himachal Pradesh, Manali needs no introduction for a trekker.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 8.30 am from Beas Bridge in Manali .
We recommend that you reach Manali by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Manali by 24th August. This gives you a buffer to account for unexpected delays and also allows you to rest well before starting your trek.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Manali:
Manali is easily accessible by road from Delhi and Chandigarh . However, the stretch beyond Mandi on NH-3 is prone to frequent landslides, often leading to delays. Keep this in mind while planning your journey.
The easiest way to reach the Manali is to:
Fly to Delhi , take a direct bus from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Manali
Fly to Chandigarh , take a direct bus from Chandigarh to Manali .
Flight options to reach Manali:
Pro Tip: If the flights to Chandigarh are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Manali. Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Chandigarh. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Chandigarh is less than Rs 1000, then book for Chandigarh. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Beas Kund Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Beas Kund Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Beas Kund Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Beas Kund Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get all your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Are backpacks, raincoats, and other equipment available for rent on Beas Kund trek? expand accordion
We do have ponchos, backpacks, shoes, and trekking poles available for rent. You can order them online here . You receive your rental gear after you set off from Manali to start the trek.
What is the best time to do Beas Kund trek? expand accordion
May to July and September to October are the best months for the Beas Kund trek.
What will the temperatures be like on Beas Kund trek? expand accordion
Beas Kund climbs up to around 12,700 ft. Expect it to be very cold even in summer.
In May, June, and July, the temperatures could drop to around 1-2 degrees at night and lower if there is snow.
In September and October, there won’t be snow, but the temperatures could drop to 3-4 degrees post sundown.
What will we do if it rains on the Beas Kund trek? expand accordion
If it starts raining while you’re trekking, we will continue on the trail as planned. Your poncho should protect you from the rain. Carry a backpack cover for extra protection from rain for your belongings. When it rains at the campsite, we usually get together in the dining tent and play games. The tents that you will be staying in, the dining tent, kitchen, and toilet tents are all waterproof, so you will stay dry inside.
When will there be snow on Beas Kund trek? expand accordion
You are likely to find snow on this trek in June. However, this depends on the amount of snowfall that happens in the preceding winter.
Will I get mobile network on Beas Kund trek? Are there any electricity charging points on the trek? expand accordion
Manali would be the last place where you will find electricity and charging points on the trek. There might be an intermittent network a little after Solang Valley, but don’t bank on it. Make all your important calls beforehand.
What is the style of accommodation in Beas Kund trek? expand accordion
Beas Kund is a 4-day trek. Accommodation will be in tents on all the days – each tent will be shared by two trekkers. The tents will be provided by Indiahikes. We will also put up toilet tents – the number will vary according to the size of the group.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 35 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Beas Kund trek is Rs 1,600 excluding tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.