Bhrigu Lake Trek 2026 | A High Altitude Lake at 14,000 ft Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Callback
Bhrigu Lake
The Prettiest Grassland Trek in Himachal
We've announced 2026 dates for the Bhrigu Lake Trek
Scroll down to view dates. If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click Here to Request A Callback
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Manali: Start your trek from the Indiahikes Jungle Line campus — tucked inside dense deodar forests and apple orchards in the silent outskirts of Manali.
The Best Grasslands of Himachal: On most treks, reaching meadows takes days. At Bhrigu, grasslands open immediately after a short, steep forest climb. It is the best trek to experience Himachal’s meadows.
Flowers That Outdo Hampta Pass: Meadows bloom with wildflowers from July to September. Trekkers who've done both rate Bhrigu's flower diversity above Hampta Pass.
Rola Kholi's Commanding Mountain Views: From your Rola Kholi Camp, witness iconic peaks like Hanuman Tibba, Shitidhar and Ladakhi Peak rising on the horizon. Golden morning light streaks across the meadow below.
The Sacred Bhrigu Lake : Witness a turquoise alpine lake at 14,000 ft, half-frozen in early Summers. Maharishi Bhrigu is believed to have meditated here.
The Prettiest Grassland Trek in Himachal
A lot of trekkers do the Bhrigu Lake trek for the lake itself. Steeped in mythology, it is known as the place where Maharishi Bhrigu sat in deep meditation. However, we believe the lake is not the only thing the trek has to offer. You must do the Bhrigu Lake trek for its grasslands.
On this trek, you’re almost rushed into the meadows. There’s hardly any transition. A relentless climb takes you through a dense oak and pine forest right from the Gulaba roadhead. And in no time, the trees part to reveal wide, rolling meadows. On most treks, you walk for days before you reach grasslands like these. But here, they greet you on day one. That’s what sets Bhrigu Lake apart.
play video
Your very first campsite at Jonker Thatch is set on a sloping meadow, with sweeping views of the Kullu Valley. As you climb out of Jonker, the grasslands open up even more. They stretch endlessly. In monsoon, they burst into colour with wildflowers. Dense forests line their edges, but the trail never leaves the open grasslands. You hop across streams, climb over ledges, and navigate bends — all while staying on these beautiful alpine meadows. In July, you'll see the higher end of these meadows covered with a blanket of snow. From August to September, they will be at their lushest green. You’ll spot wildflowers everywhere. If you look over your shoulder, you’ll see iconic peaks like the Hanuman Tibba rise above the clouds. It’s rare to walk so long and stay in such open alpine meadows all through.
Read more
expand overview
Did you know that entrepreneur Ankur Warikoo and his team, wariCrew, completed the Bhrigu Lake trek in July 2024? Their objective was to come together as a team, and they picked an adventure as a medium to do so. Click here to learn more about our unique experiential learning programs for schools, colleges and corporates at the Indiahikes School of Outdoor Learning (InSOUL).
Your very first campsite at Jonker Thatch is set on a sloping meadow, with sweeping views of the Kullu Valley. As you climb out of Jonker, the grasslands open up even more. They stretch endlessly. In monsoon, they burst into colour with wildflowers. Dense forests line their edges, but the trail never leaves the open grasslands. You hop across streams, climb over ledges, and navigate bends — all while staying on these beautiful alpine meadows. In July, you'll see the higher end of these meadows covered with a blanket of snow. From August to September, they will be at their lushest green. You’ll spot wildflowers everywhere. If you look over your shoulder, you’ll see iconic peaks like the Hanuman Tibba rise above the clouds. It’s rare to walk so long and stay in such open alpine meadows all through.
After Rola Kholi, a beautiful campsite beside a gushing stream, the scenery changes. You climb a ridge that leads you to Bhrigu Lake. Quietly nestled in a fold of these grasslands, the lake sits in solitude, its colours shifting with the weather. At times, clouds float below, making the lake feel suspended in the sky. It’s a calm, secluded summit. But even after reaching the lake, it’s the meadows that stay with you. Trekkers return raving about these vast grasslands long after the trek is over.
That said, this is not an easy trek. You climb to over 14,000 ft in just four days. The ascent from Gulaba and the final push beyond Rola Kholi can be demanding. But with the right preparation, it’s well within reach — even for fit beginners.
What makes it special is that while most grassland treks in Uttarakhand are closed in the monsoon, Bhrigu Lake is at its best. The meadows are lush and full of life. Trekkers often associate these landscapes with Kashmir or Uttarakhand. Few know such grand alpine grasslands exist right here in Himachal. But if you’re looking for a spectacular grassland trek — in peak monsoon — it doesn’t get better than Bhrigu Lake.
5 Things We Love About the Bhrigu Lake Trek
1) The Rolling Grasslands of Bhrigu Lake
The grasslands on this trek are like an endless green carpet stretching as far as the eye can see. The meadows transform with altitude, starting as bright, coarse patches and turning into lush, velvety grass as you climb. Walking barefoot on these soft grasslands, surrounded by the scent of the earth and the cool mountain breeze, is an experience you’ll never forget.
2) The Variety of Flowers in the Meadows
The flowers on the Bhrigu Lake trek are something else. Hampta Pass is known for its blooms, but Bhrigu easily outdoes it—there are just so many different species here. What’s really lovely is how the flowers change with the months. It’s like the meadows are putting on a new show every few weeks, changing colours and textures as the season moves. Anyone who’s been on this trek will tell you how magical the flowers are, but somehow, we don’t talk about it enough.
3) Commanding Views from Rola Kholi
Rola Kholi, a campsite nestled in a natural cauldron, offers some of the most striking views of the Pir Panjal range. Early mornings here are magical, with golden sunlight streaking across the meadows and clouds floating below. Peaks like Hanuman Tibba, Friendship Peak, and Ladaki Peak dominate the horizon, creating a truly awe-inspiring setting.
4) The Ridgewalk to Bhrigu Lake
After Rola Kholi the trail takes on a more rugged feel. The ascent becomes steeper and more rocky. You start spotting patches of snow. At times, you even walk across snow bridges to cross streams. A final climb takes you to a ridge. From here, the Pir Panjal range spreads out in front of you. Mt Indrasan’s sharp summit stands tall on the skyline. On a clear day, you can even trace the route to Hampta Pass in the distance. This ridge slowly curves around to bring you to Bhrigu Lake — tucked away in a fold of the high meadows, its colours changing with the sky.
5) The Cultural Significance of Bhrigu Lake
As much as we celebrate Bhrigu Lake for its natural beauty, it also holds a special place in mythology. It is believed that Maharishi Bhrigu, one of the Saptarishis — the seven great sages of Hindu scriptures — meditated here. His presence made the lake sacred. Locals believe that even at an altitude of 14,000 ft the lake never freezes completely because of Bhrigu’s divine presence.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Bhrigu Lake : Take on a spiritual journey to Bhrigu Lake, one of the prettiest grassland treks of Himachal, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from lunch at Jonker Thatch on Day 1 to packed lunch at Rola Kholi on Day 4 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹700 (additional 5% GST) per trekker, one way from Manali to Gulaba (₹1400 for onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at Palchan for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.1600 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Bhrigu Lake - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Bhrigu Lake trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Now
Study this map to learn about Bhrigu Lake trek route, itinerary, campsites, terrain and more.
Day 1
Arrive at Manali. Drive from Manali to Gulaba Roadhead via Palchan. Trek to Jonker Thatch
Drive Distance : 24 km | Drive Duration : 1 hour | Trek Distance : 1.5 km | Trek Duration : 1.5 hrs
Altitude Gain : 6,725 ft to 10,285 ft
Leave from Beas Bridge, Manali , Manali at 10.00 AM for Gulaba. En route, at Palchan , drop your cloakroom bag and collect your rentals. You will meet your trek leader here where he will brief you about the trek. Make sure that you complete your lunch before reaching Gulaba.
Indiahikes will arrange transport for the transfer from Manali to Gulaba. This pickup costs ₹900 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Manali to Gulaba (₹1800 for onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Your trek starts from Gulaba. From there, you reach the first campsite at Jonker Thatch around 3.30 PM.
Day 2
Trek from Jonker Thatch to Rola Kholi
Trek Distance : 5 km | Trek Duration : 3-4 hours | Altitude Gain : 10,285 ft to 12,590 ft
Moderate. Steep ascent throughout followed by an undulating walk for the last 30 minutes.
Day 3
Trek from Rola Kholi to Bhrigu Lake, and back to Rola Kholi
Trek Distance : 10 km | Trek Duration : 7-8 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss : 12,590 ft to 14,009 ft and back
Moderate. Starts on a stony trail. Initial ascent for 2 hours followed by 10 minutes descent. Level walk for 15 minutes followed by an hour’s steep ascent to the lake.
Day 4
Trek from Rola Kholi to Gulaba. Drive back to Manali
Trek Distance : 5 km | Trek Duration : 3-4 hours
Altitude Loss : 12,590 ft to 9,875 ft
Easy. Mostly descending all the way to Gulaba.
Indiahikes will arrange transport for the drop-off to Manali from Gulaba. This drop-off costs ₹900 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Gulaba to Manali (₹1800 for onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
On the way back, stop at Palchan , collect your cloakroom and return rentals.
You are expected to reach Manali by 4 PM.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.v
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Arrive at Manali. Drive from Manali to Gulaba Roadhead, and Trek to Jonker Thatch
Drive Duration: 1 hour | Trek Duration: 1.5 hours
Drive Distance : 24 km | Trek Distance : 1.5 km
Altitude Gain : 6,725 ft to 10,285 ft
Difficulty: Moderate ascent. Well-marked road followed by forest trails.
The Bhrigu Lake trek begins at Gulaba. The 24 km route to Gulaba takes you on the Manali-Rohtang Pass road, past Kolang, Palchan and Kothi. You get fabulous views of pine forests and mountains as soon as you cross Kothi.
Once a quiet hamlet, Gulaba is now buzzing with tourists in transit to Rohtang Pass.
Vehicles drop you off at the road and head near the Gulaba check post.
Read More
The Bhrigu Lake trek begins at Gulaba. The 24 km route to Gulaba takes you on the Manali-Rohtang Pass road, past Kolang, Palchan and Kothi. You get fabulous views of pine forests and mountains as soon as you cross Kothi.
Once a quiet hamlet, Gulaba is now buzzing with tourists in transit to Rohtang Pass.
Vehicles drop you off at the road and head near the Gulaba check post.
Trek steadily underneath forest cover , passing through open grasslands now and then. You will reach the Jonker Thatch campsite in about an hour and fifteen minutes.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Jonker Thatch to Rola Kholi
Trek Duration: 3-4 hours | Trek Distance : 5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 10,285 ft to 12,590 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Steep ascent throughout followed by an undulating walk for the last 30 minutes.
The trail begins with a steep ascent. Make note of brown oak, cedar and birch trees on the trail here. These are a few of the most prominent trees in the Himalayas. After around 20 minutes, the trail enters an open meadow where shepherds camp.
Observe Mt Hanuman Tibba towering over the meadow in the background. Below Hanuman Tibba are the Seven Sister peaks seated in the Beas Kund Valley. Turn right from the upper ridge of the meadow and head south. The second forested cover begins here.
Rola Kholi is a scenic grazing ground used by local shepherds. Located at the base of Bhrigu Lake, it makes for an ideal camping spot. The water source here is Chor Nallah, which flows across the camping ground.
Read More
The trail begins with a steep ascent. Make note of brown oak, cedar and birch trees on the trail here. These are a few of the most prominent trees in the Himalayas. After around 20 minutes, the trail enters an open meadow where shepherds camp.
Observe Mt Hanuman Tibba towering over the meadow in the background. Below Hanuman Tibba are the Seven Sister peaks seated in the Beas Kund Valley. Turn right from the upper ridge of the meadow and head south. The second forested cover begins here.
Rola Kholi is a scenic grazing ground used by local shepherds. Located at the base of Bhrigu Lake, it makes for an ideal camping spot. The water source here is Chor Nallah, which flows across the camping ground.
"The clouds are so dramatic on this trek. They keep popping like cotton candy in the valley. When you reach the Rola Kholi campsite, you see these floating clouds below you. Especially early in the morning, with sun rays dancing on the clouds. To see this is very rare. After Sandakphu, I think this is the next trek which offers such a spectacular cloud experience," says Senior Trek Leader, Nitesh Kumar.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Rola Kholi to Bhrigu Lake, and back to Rola Kholi
Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance : 10 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 12,590 ft to 14,009 ft and back
Difficulty: Moderate. Starts on a stony trail. Initial steep ascent for 2 hours followed by a 10 minutes descent. Level walk for 15 minutes followed by an hour's steep ascent to the lake.
Start early as you have a lot of distance to cover today. You have to trek a height of around 1,348 ft to reach Bhrigu Lake.
Bhrigu Lake rests between two high-altitude ridges. You begin with hiking to the first ridge, which is an hour away. In June, the trail is usually covered in snow. In July, as the snow melts on the lower reaches, you see the trail slowly turning from green to brown and white. As you reach the ridge, look for an oval glacial lake in the distance. Depending on the season, the lake is either surrounded by snow or fresh grass, along with alpine flowers.
"If you climb over the ridge on the side of Bhrigu Lake and look down, you see the three campsites of Hampta Pass trek - Chikha, Jwara, and Balu ka Ghera - laid out in front of you. But be careful as you climb over the ridge. From the edge, it is a nerve-wracking steep drop into the valley," says Arjun Majumdar, Founder and CEO.
Read More
Start early as you have a lot of distance to cover today. You have to trek a height of around 1,348 ft to reach Bhrigu Lake.
Bhrigu Lake rests between two high-altitude ridges. You begin with hiking to the first ridge, which is an hour away. In June, the trail is usually covered in snow. In July, as the snow melts on the lower reaches, you see the trail slowly turning from green to brown and white. As you reach the ridge, look for an oval glacial lake in the distance. Depending on the season, the lake is either surrounded by snow or fresh grass, along with alpine flowers.
"If you climb over the ridge on the side of Bhrigu Lake and look down, you see the three campsites of Hampta Pass trek - Chikha, Jwara, and Balu ka Ghera - laid out in front of you. But be careful as you climb over the ridge. From the edge, it is a nerve-wracking steep drop into the valley," says Arjun Majumdar, Founder and CEO.
On a clear day, you can catch a stunning panoramic view of the Pir Pinjal and Dhauladhar ranges . Also, Hanuman Tibba stands majestically before you. The lake is normally enveloped in fog which can make finding the route tricky. It is always advisable to hire a local guide.
After spending time at the lake, retrace your way to Rola Kholi.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Rola Kholi to Gulaba. Drive back to Manali
Trek Duration: 3-4 hours | Trek Distance : 5 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 12,590 ft to 9,875 ft
Difficulty: Easy. Mostly descending.
Today’s trek is an easy one. You get back to Gulaba through the meadows you came up from. The descent can be a bit steep but is good on your legs given you are always in the meadows.
It takes 3-4 hours to reach Gulaba. Gulaba at around 9,875 ft is a better exit for your knees and feet as compared to Vasisht at 7,000 ft.
Read More
go to previous day Day 3
Today’s trek is an easy one. You get back to Gulaba through the meadows you came up from. The descent can be a bit steep but is good on your legs given you are always in the meadows.
It takes 3-4 hours to reach Gulaba. Gulaba at around 9,875 ft is a better exit for your knees and feet as compared to Vasisht at 7,000 ft.
go to previous day Day 3
How Difficult is the Bhrigu Lake Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 21.5 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 7,284 ft (6,725 ft to 14,009 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents on uneven trails.
Terrain:
The climb from Gulaba to Jonker Thatch is extremely steep. You gain almost 3500 ft in elevation over just 2 km of trekking.
On the last day of the trek, you descend continuously to Gulaba all the way from Rola Kholi. While this makes the trek a little easier than the usual 4000 ft descent to Vashisht, it is still hard on your knees.
The trail fades in meadows. It is easy to get lost, making solo trekking risky.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic.
Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. The forest trail ahead of Gulaba gets especially mushy and difficult to climb.
Snowfall in early weeks of June can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
In Monsoon, the trail becomes slippery. Wear shoes with good grip to avoid falls, especially on narrow sections above deep valleys.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
You climb more than 3500 ft from Gulaba to Jonker Thatch on the very first day of the trek. This rapid elevation gain, coupled with exertion, makes you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
Bhrigu Lake is situated 14,009 ft above sea level. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
In case of an AMS emergency before or after reaching Bhrigu Lake, you will need to return to Gulaba. If a medical emergency occurs before or after the lake, then Manali is where you would need to go to get to a hospital. Manali is an hour’s drive from Gulaba
Closest Hospital to the Bhrigu Lake Trek:
The medical facilities at Manali, just 15 km from the Gulaba roadhead, are your best bet in case of sudden medical emergencies on the Bhrigu Lake Trek. In case of a more serious medical issue, the best option is to access medical facilities at Chandigarh, a 6-hr drive from Manali.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Bhrigu Lake Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Bhrigu Lake is a high-altitude trek and it can be done for almost four months in a year. The very best time would be between June and September . You can extend it to the end of October.
Senior Trek Leader, Nitesh Kumar says, "Early in the season when I was there, the lake was completely frozen. The lake was surrounded by snow. Slowly as the season progressed I saw the lake melting. Later into the season, in August you see the deep blue water in Bhrigu Lake. During this time, flowers are blooming all around the lake."
In May you will find a lot of snow during your final ascent to Bhrigu lake. This makes it difficult to reach the lake. So, it’s advisable to trek to Bhrigu Lake between June and September.
The terrain changes colours and texture even during this window which ideally begins from mid-June.
Bhrigu Lake from mid-June to mid-July
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: Despite it being summer, expect snow patches on the ground.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
At the beginning of the season, around mid-June, you will find a lot of snow at Rola Kholi. The trek is just starting to emerge from the snow. During this time, you will find many traces of winter lingering on the trek.
The most prominent being a frozen Bhrigu Lake, surrounded by snow. The ice begins to thaw only as July descends.
Even though the meadows are a highlight of this trek, they emerge only as the monsoon season deepens.
Bhrigu Lake from mid-July to mid-August
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: Snow starts melting away as we move into August. You will still find snow closer to Bhrigu Lake.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
As the season progresses into July, the blanket of snow starts lifting. You still find some snow on your final ascend to Bhrigu Lake, especially in early July, but most snow on the trek has melted.
The frozen Bhrigu Lake has also started melting in small concentric circles. Parts of it are still icy, but the ice is thinning. Meadows around the lake also start emerging as you pass mid-July.
Now, the monsoon is also at its peak. Rains become frequent and clouds usually glide in unannounced shrouding the lake and the trail. You get to see a beautiful dance of clouds when at Rola Kholi.
Bhrigu Lake from mid-August to September
Day time: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and 3 °C.
Presence of snow: The snow is gone, and the terrain is replaced with lush greenery.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Like a climax, the last leg of the season is set up on a grand stage with lush meadows.
The snow is gone. Bhrigu Lake flaunts a deep royal blue colour with green grass and flowers blooming around it. It is a sight to behold.
Monsoon is receding now and blue skies have started peeping out. It’s a great time to catch the arresting views of the underrated mountains of Himachal Pradesh.
When you camp at Rola Kholi, you see the Dhauladhar range rising tall with the seven sisters, Hanuman Tibba, Mt Manali, and Shitidhar among many others. These views sparkle under the brilliant blue sky as autumn emerges in September.
Is trekking in monsoon safe?
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Bhrigu Lake Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Your trek to Bhrigu Lake begins right from the heart of Manali . The most prominent town in the Kullu District of Himachal Pradesh, Manali needs no introduction for a trekker.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 10.00 am from Beas Bridge in Manali .
We recommend that you reach Manali by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Manali by 24th August. This gives you a buffer to account for unexpected delays and also allows you to rest well before starting your trek.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Manali:
Manali is easily accessible by road from Delhi and Chandigarh . However, the stretch beyond Mandi on NH-3 is prone to frequent landslides, often leading to delays. Keep this in mind while planning your journey.
The easiest way to reach the Manali is to:
Fly to Delhi , take a direct bus from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Manali
Fly to Chandigarh , take a direct bus from Chandigarh to Manali .
Flight options to reach Manali:
Pro Tip: If the flights to Chandigarh are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Manali. Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Chandigarh. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Chandigarh is less than Rs 1000, then book for Chandigarh. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Bhrigu Lake Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Bhrigu Lake Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Bhrigu Lake Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Bhrigu Lake Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How do I get to Bhrigu Lake? expand accordion
The Bhrigu Lake trek starts from Gulaba, which is 24 km from Manali. Indiahikes organizes transport for trekkers from Manali to Gulaba on Day 1 of the trek. Manali is well connected to Delhi.
If you take an overnight bus from Delhi, it will take you 12-14 hours to reach Manali. Tickets can be booked online at www. redbus.in We recommend travelling by bus with Lakshmi Holidays. They are clean, affordable and usually run on time.
Note: Since Delhi-Manali is a long journey, most private buses leave Delhi between 5.00 pm and 6.00 pm. The last government bus leaves at 8.30 pm from ISBT Kashmere Gate.
Is trekking in monsoon safe? expand accordion
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
How long is Bhrigu Lake trek? expand accordion
Starting from Gulaba (24 km from Manali), the Bhrigu Lake treks is approximately 22 km which you may cover over 4 days.
Here’s a quick itinerary to give you an idea:
Day 1: Drive from Manali to Gulaba. Then an hour trek to the campsite (Jonker Thatch).
Day 2: Jonker Thatch (10,285 ft) to Rola Kholi (12,950 ft); 3-4 hours, 5 km
Day 3: Rola Kholi (12,950 ft) to Bhrigu Lake (14,009 ft) and back to Rola Kholi; 5-6 hours, 10 km
Day 4: Rola Kholi (12,950 ft) to Gulaba (9,875 ft); 3-4 hours, 5 km. Drive to Manali. You are expected to reach Manali by 3:30 PM.
Is Bhrigu Lake trek difficult? expand accordion
The Bhrigu Lake trek is classified as a trek of moderate difficulty. You start from an altitude of 8,530 ft at Gulaba and you reach the highest point of the trek at 14,009 ft .
This means you gain around 5,480 ft over just two days of trekking. This can make the trek quite demanding. So, it is necessary to train well for the trek. Focus on cardiovascular and strength training if you are planning to go for the Bhrigu Lake trek.
Is there network, connectivity and electricity on Bhrigu Lake trek? expand accordion
You won’t find any electricity after you set off from Manali. Even the network starts getting sketchy. But you may find Vodafone and Jio network at Rola Kholi campsite. And, 100 metres from Rola Kholi sometimes you even find Airtel. But all these are subjective to the weather. The network gets affected when clouds roll into the valley.
Where to find the last ATM on Bhrigu Lake trek? expand accordion
Manali is your last stop for an ATM. You won’t come across any ATM after Manali. So, if you need cash, withdraw it from Manali and only then set off for Gulaba.
Is it safe in Manali? expand accordion
Yes, Manali is a safe hill station to be in because it is a popular tourist destination, buzzing with people from various nationalities almost throughout the year. You will find a range of hotels (for all budgets), cafes, and eateries popping up at every turn.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes, you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 35 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Bhrigu Lake trek is Rs 1,680 including tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.