Bodpathri Trek 2026 - The new discovery that could be one of the greatest treks in Kashmir - Indiahikes Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Bodpathri Trek
Trek in Central Kashmir's Most Enchanting Meadows
We are not likely to run this trek in 2026. Consider the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek instead.
With grand meadows and a dramatic crossover to Spiti, we rank Pin Bhaba among our Top 3 Treks of All Time. View the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
Trek in Central Kashmir's Most Enchanting Meadows
Our Remote Trek Documenter, Saliyah Ahmad and our Senior Trek Leader, Nitesh Kumar, who has designed our Gidara Bugyal, the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek and the recent Ranthan Kharak trek, explored the Bodpathri trek and put it down in a very simple line. They said, "One emotion to describe this trek is in a word — ZABARDAST!"
Do you know the story of how this trek came to life? Read this article to learn what happened behind the scenes when Indiahikes explored this trek.
There are treks like Kashmir Great Lakes and Tarsar Marsar. People post about these treks and go gaga. But the Bodpathri Trek, like an older brother, was waiting for its time. After being under the army's jurisdiction for decades, the trek can now stand up on its own and claim its place among the greatest treks of Jammu & Kashmir.
play video
There are several reasons why anyone will feel this trek is one of the greatest in Jammu & Kashmir:
Read more
expand overview
There are several reasons why anyone will feel this trek is one of the greatest in Jammu & Kashmir:
Trekkers have never stepped into such a beautiful part of Jammu & Kashmir. This region was out of bounds until a few years ago. Even now, you see remains of army bunkers and trenches on the trail. What has stayed in the untouched beauty that no one has seen before — the forests, meadows, valleys, rivers and lakes. All come together to show you a side of Jammu & Kashmir that none of our other treks has shown.
There are 6 majestic alpine lakes to see. Two of them, the Bodsar and the Pamsar, are at par with our lakes on the KGL and Tarsar Marsar. Lakes like the Pathrisar, Lokutsar and Damansar are no pushovers either. Then there are the cute Navkansar twin lakes.
Trekkers traverse through the mind-boggling carpeted beauty of the Ashtaar valley. And then discover there are 4 more such beautiful valleys to trek through. The Guruwansar, Pamsar, Bodsar and the Gadtar valleys. Each is distinctly beautiful. Each has a strong character.
The start of the trek itself feels like paradise. There is a reason why it is called Doodhpathri (the valley of milk). The golf course-like bowl-shaped valley stuns anyone with its velvety green splendour.
The forest trails outside Doodhpathri are very enchanting. The coniferous trees are so tall that we cannot see their tops.
The KGL and Tarsar Marsar treks boast of some great meadows. On the Bodpathri trek, the meadows are the highlights. They are vast and endless, like a sea, in every direction. You are in the middle of it. It is 360 degrees of manicured alpine meadows — for days.
Rarely will you witness a golden sunrise as beautiful as from the camps around the Gurwansar lake. The sun rises from the meadows torching everything in a golden light. The alpenglow on the snow-capped mountains only adds to this splendour.
On this trek, you camp beside the most picturesque meadows, valleys, rivers and river delta. If you think you have camped at some exotic locations on your other treks, then the campsites of the Bodpathri trek will make you rethink those campsites.
You finally enter the forbidden meadows of Tosamaidan. The beauty of Tosamaidan makes you end the trek on a high.
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Trek Inclusions
Accommodation
Stay is included from Day 1 to Day 6 (Doodhpathri to Gadtar). You will be staying camping on all days of the trek (2 per tent).
Meals
All meals from dinner at Doodhpathri on Day 1 to lunch at on Gadtar Day 6 are included. We provide simple, nutritious vegetarian food on all days of the trek.
Camping Charges
All trekking permits and forest camping charges are included.
Safety Equipment
First aid, medical kit, oxygen cylinders, stretchers etc. will be available at all campsites to deal with emergencies.
Trekking Equipment
You will stay in high-quality tents and sleeping bags in all the camps. Our high-altitude sleeping bags can withstand temperatures as low as -10 ºC. We provide ice axes, roped, microspikes, gaiters etc. as required.
Trek Exclusions
Transport to and from the base camp
The transport costs Rs. 600 per trekker and is paid directly to the driver while travelling to and from the base camp.
For the return journey, the cost will be approx Rs 1,100 per trekker (The drive from Tosamaidan to Srinagar).
Pick up location: We will pick you up from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar . Reporting time: 10.00 am.
The vehicle will be non-AC.
Food during transit
Any food you have during your travel to and from the base camp is in your own expense.
Cloakroom Facility
We have a cloakroom facility available at Srinagar for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
Please do not leave behind any valuables.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Cutlery
Any kind of personal cutlery is not provided by Indiahikes. Trekkers, as part of their packing list, are expected to carry their own tiffin boxes, bottles and mugs.
However, the above-mentioned items are available for rent on prior booking.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Bodpathri - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Bodpathri Trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Drive from Srinagar to Doodhpathri
Drive distance: 55 km | Drive Duration: 2.5 hours | Pick-up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar
Important Note: Reach the pick up point on your own and meet the Indiahikes team at 8 AM for your rental gear collection and cloak room.
Transport will be organized at 10 AM. The cost of the cab is Rs 600 per person and needs to be paid directly to the driver. The vehicle will be non-AC
Day 2
Trek from Doodhpathri to Dishkal
Trek distance: 6.2 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Altitude gain: 8,900 ft to 10,606 ft
Moderate. Gradual to steep ascent through forests, and meadows. A lot of boulders.
Day 3
Trek from Dishkal to Ashtaar Valley
Trek distance: 4.3 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Altitude gain: 10,606 ft to 11,525 ft
Moderate-Diffcult. A steep ascent through meadows and a ridge.
Day 4
Trek from Ashtaar Valley to Gurwansar
Trek distance: 7.1 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Altitude gain: 11,525 ft to 12,514 ft
Moderate. Long gradual Ascents on meadows with boulders along with river crossing.
Day 5
Trek from Gurwansar to Duriem via Pamsar Lake
Trek distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours
Altitude gain: 12,514 ft to 12,621 ft via 13,060 ft
Moderate- difficult . Long walks and steep ascents through boulder sections
Day 6
Trek from Duriem to Gadtar via Bodsar Lake, Trastar Lake, Navkansar I,II & Damamsar Lake
Trek distance: 10.5 km | Trek Duration: 8 hours
Altitude gain and loss : 12,621 ft to 12,545 ft via 13,000 ft
Moderate- Difficulty . Long walks, steep ascents & descents through boulder sections enroute to Bodsar Lake & Navkansar I.
Day 7
Trek from Gadtar to Tosamaidan. Drive to Srinagar via Sitaran
Trek Distance: 11 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude loss: 12,545 ft to 10,080 ft
Drive Distance: 80 km | Drive Duration: 3.5 hours
The cost for the return journey will be approx Rs 1,100 per trekker. You take a shared vehicle from Tosamaidan to Srinagar.
Moderate. Gentle descents all the way along with river crossing on rocks.
Tip: For all your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability. This depends completely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir.
Important Advisory:
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield .
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Srinagar to Doodhpathri
Drive Duration: 2.5 hours | Drive Distance: 55 km
Altitude: 8,900 ft
The travel to Doodhpathri can be divided into two parts. The first part is reaching Budgam and the second leg of your travel will be from Budgam and reaching the base town.
The first section of the drive takes you through Srinagar city and the city outskirts. The drive is about an hour away. Later once you cross the city, you have the Kashmir valley opening up. Along with the cultivations, the sight of the meadows sprawling in a few sections is a visual treat.
Note: If you are travelling in Kashmir before Day 1, please ensure you reach the campsite well before time.
Read More
The travel to Doodhpathri can be divided into two parts. The first part is reaching Budgam and the second leg of your travel will be from Budgam and reaching the base town.
The first section of the drive takes you through Srinagar city and the city outskirts. The drive is about an hour away. Later once you cross the city, you have the Kashmir valley opening up. Along with the cultivations, the sight of the meadows sprawling in a few sections is a visual treat.
Note: If you are travelling in Kashmir before Day 1, please ensure you reach the campsite well before time.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Doodhpathri to Dishkal Campsite
Trek Distance: 6.2 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Altitude gain: 8,900 ft to 10,606 ft
Moderate. Gradual to steep ascent walks through forests and meadows.
Water Sources: Carry sufficient water from Doodhpathri. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way.
Today’s trek is easy on your legs. You start by walking for a short distance on the road till you enter the gate of Doodhpatri. From here, it’s a refreshing ascend into the pine forest. The forest you see in Kashmir is not as dense as those in Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh. It’s airy, sparse.
Just after 1 kilometre of ascending, you pop into a wide clearing. You may use this as a short rest point. The trail moves back into the pine forest and zigzags its way to the next clearing. Around this time, you also cross the Afsaar river.
After crossing the river, you ascend to a flat forest ledge. You’ll come across another clearing after this. For the first 4 km, till you are within the tree line, you alternate between pine forest and clearings.
Read More
Today’s trek is easy on your legs. You start by walking for a short distance on the road till you enter the gate of Doodhpatri. From here, it’s a refreshing ascend into the pine forest. The forest you see in Kashmir is not as dense as those in Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh. It’s airy, sparse.
Just after 1 kilometre of ascending, you pop into a wide clearing. You may use this as a short rest point. The trail moves back into the pine forest and zigzags its way to the next clearing. Around this time, you also cross the Afsaar river.
After crossing the river, you ascend to a flat forest ledge. You’ll come across another clearing after this. For the first 4 km, till you are within the tree line, you alternate between pine forest and clearings.
After the clearing, notice a diversion going to the right. This is a shorter route to Gurwansar, but avoid taking it. There are no camping spots on that route. A better option would be to take the route to the left which leads you to Dander meadow.
Just after the diversion, the tree line ends. Till now you are around 6 km into the trail. You’ll cross shepherd huts on your left. The Dishkal campsite is located just ahead.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek from Dishkal to Ashtaar Valley
Trek distance: 4.3 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Altitude gain: 10,606 ft to 11,525 ft
Moderate - Difficult. A steep ascent through meadows and a ridge.
Treat Dishkal as the beginning of Dander meadows. You’ll find water sources trickling amidst the boulders. If you are unable to find a water source near the shepherd huts, move further into the gradual meadows. You’ll find another water source.
As soon as the meadows end, start gradually ascending to the top of a mountain ridge. You’ll come across a diversion. One way takes you straight and the other towards the right. Take the path to the right.
Soon after, you reach the highest point on the ridge. You’ll see the vistas opening up. The Ashtaar valley lies sprawling in front of you. The valley, you’ll notice, has boulders strewn around.
Read More
Treat Dishkal as the beginning of Dander meadows. You’ll find water sources trickling amidst the boulders. If you are unable to find a water source near the shepherd huts, move further into the gradual meadows. You’ll find another water source.
As soon as the meadows end, start gradually ascending to the top of a mountain ridge. You’ll come across a diversion. One way takes you straight and the other towards the right. Take the path to the right.
Soon after, you reach the highest point on the ridge. You’ll see the vistas opening up. The Ashtaar valley lies sprawling in front of you. The valley, you’ll notice, has boulders strewn around.
From the top of the ridge, descend into the boulder section. Meander through these boulders to the river crossing. Across the river, you’ll see shepherd huts. Camp close to these shepherd huts, along the river. The land around is not marshy, so it’s easy to find dry, flat ground.
The day is easy on the legs, so after setting up camp, explore the surrounding area. Go further into the valley. On a clear evening, you’ll see the majestic snow-clad Pir Panjal range from here.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Ashtaar valley to Gurwansar
Trek Distance: 7.1 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Altitude gain: 11,525 ft to 12,514 ft
Moderate. Long gradual Ascents on meadows along with river crossing.
Water Sources: Carry 2 litres of water from Ashtaar Valley. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way.
Today you’ll start inching towards the higher altitude of 12,500 feet, as much as the height of the Kedarkantha summit. You’ll climb 1000 feet today towards the end of the trek.
Start your trek by ascending from the campsite to a high point. Then start descending. There will be boulder patches here. After you descend, the trail again ascends a little. Suddenly, you see miles and miles of flat grasslands laid out in front of you. “I was taken aback by this sight,” shares Senior Trek Leader Nitesh Kumar who explored the trek.
Notice that this is not a valley. Until now the landscape was undulating. But this is a flat piece of landscape. These are called Rajdhani meadows. Take in the large, expansive feel of this landscape. You walk more than 2 km on these flat meadows and then you start climbing to reach the higher altitude.
Read More
Today you’ll start inching towards the higher altitude of 12,500 feet, as much as the height of the Kedarkantha summit. You’ll climb 1000 feet today towards the end of the trek.
Start your trek by ascending from the campsite to a high point. Then start descending. There will be boulder patches here. After you descend, the trail again ascends a little. Suddenly, you see miles and miles of flat grasslands laid out in front of you. “I was taken aback by this sight,” shares Senior Trek Leader Nitesh Kumar who explored the trek.
Notice that this is not a valley. Until now the landscape was undulating. But this is a flat piece of landscape. These are called Rajdhani meadows. Take in the large, expansive feel of this landscape. You walk more than 2 km on these flat meadows and then you start climbing to reach the higher altitude.
Then you slowly turn. There are two ridges on your sides. Start trekking into the valley. It’s like a lush grazing ground for sheep, and you may come across a friendly flock. You are very close to the Gurwansar campsite now.
But before you reach, there’s a river crossing. Right after you reach the Gurwansar campsite.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 5: Trek from Gurwansar to Duriem via Pamsar lake
Trek Distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours
Altitude gain: 12,514 ft to 12,621 ft via 13,060 ft
Moderate- difficult . Long walks and steep ascents through boulder sections
Water Sources: Carry 2 litres of water from Gurwansar. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way.
Today is an interesting day. You’ll trek via Pamsar lake. This lake is huge and it’s going to be an experience to be by this expansive water body. But it is a long day, so carry your packed lunch.
Again, start your day by ascending a ridge and then you descend into a valley. Throughout the trek, you alternate between valley and ridges. Walk on the grassy ledge for almost 3 km and then start descending. From here, you go off the trail to visit Pamsar Lake. Drop your bags here and then start ascending.
Ascend for around 1 km to reach Pamsar Lake. The scale of this lake is huge. You do not see it at once. But as you draw closer, the lake slowly reveals itself. Spend some quiet moments here. Then return to the bag drop point.
Read More
Today is an interesting day. You’ll trek via Pamsar lake. This lake is huge and it’s going to be an experience to be by this expansive water body. But it is a long day, so carry your packed lunch.
Again, start your day by ascending a ridge and then you descend into a valley. Throughout the trek, you alternate between valley and ridges. Walk on the grassy ledge for almost 3 km and then start descending. From here, you go off the trail to visit Pamsar Lake. Drop your bags here and then start ascending.
Ascend for around 1 km to reach Pamsar Lake. The scale of this lake is huge. You do not see it at once. But as you draw closer, the lake slowly reveals itself. Spend some quiet moments here. Then return to the bag drop point.
From the bag, the drop point starts ascending to a ridge. The ascent is gradual to a boulder ledge. Continue your ascend till you reach the top of the ridge. Start your descent to the Duriem from here.
On the way, you’ll come across a depression. There’s a water point here. The trek has been long, so fill your bottles. Ascend out of the depression. You’ll come across another boulder patch. As you cross this section, the whole river delta fans out in front of you.
Note : There’s no trail as you descend through the boulder patches. So be mindful of your step as you meander through the boulder patches.
Again, you’ll come across a stream crossing. Notice how you are consistently crossing streams before you camp. It is a refreshing experience after a long day’s trek.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Duriem to Gadtar via Bodsar lake, Tratsar Lake, Navkansar I II & Damamsar lake
Trek Distance: 10.5 km | Trek Duration: 8 hours
Altitude Loss: 12,621 ft to 12,545 ft via 13,000 ft
Moderate- Difficulty . Long walks, steep ascents & descents through boulder sections enroute to Bodsar Lake & Navkansar I.
Water Sources: Carry 2 litres of water from Duriem. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way.
It is a long day today where you will climb ridges to spot the lakes.
Start your day by ascending almost 2.5 km to a point from where you again go off the trail. Drop your bags here and start trekking to the Bodsar lake viewpoint. It’s almost half a km away on your left. From the high point, look back and you’ll also see your Duriem campsite. Also, watch out for Tratsar Lake aka Lokutsar lake.
After the viewpoint, return to the bag drop point. Pick your bags and start ascending in the opposite direction. This is a bouldery patch. Soon you come to a steep ascend. This continues for around 1 km until you reach the flat portion of the ridge. You can see the lakes from here. After spending a few picturesque moments at this vantage point. Start descending from the ridge. After descending for about a kilometre, you start ascending.
Read More
It is a long day today where you will climb ridges to spot the lakes.
Start your day by ascending almost 2.5 km to a point from where you again go off the trail. Drop your bags here and start trekking to the Bodsar lake viewpoint. It’s almost half a km away on your left. From the high point, look back and you’ll also see your Duriem campsite. Also, watch out for Tratsar Lake aka Lokutsar lake.
After the viewpoint, return to the bag drop point. Pick your bags and start ascending in the opposite direction. This is a bouldery patch. Soon you come to a steep ascend. This continues for around 1 km until you reach the flat portion of the ridge. You can see the lakes from here. After spending a few picturesque moments at this vantage point. Start descending from the ridge. After descending for about a kilometre, you start ascending.
The trail gradually ascends to Damamsar Lake. Note that you are walking on a ridge. From the highest point of the ridge, you can see Damsar, Navkansar I and II lakes. It’s a sight that will remain with you for long. These lakes are formed by snow melting from the surrounding mountains.
From here the trail consistently descends to the Gadtar campsite.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 7: Gadtar to Tosamaidan. Drive to Srinagar
Trek Distance: 9.5 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Drive Distance: 80 km | Drive Duration: 3 hours
Altitude loss: 12,545 ft to 10,080 ft
Moderate. Gentle descents all the way along with river crossing on rocks.
Water Sources: Carry 2 litres of water from Gadtar. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way.
It’s the last day of the trek today. But it’s a long day and you’ll end the trek on a high :)
The day begins with an exciting river crossing after which you start ascending to a grassy ledge. As it usually happens with treks in Kashmir, you alternate between ascends and descends, usually hanging around the same altitude for a long time.
You reach the top of the ridge and then descend to your second river crossing. Descend continues after the river crossing and soon you come across a mud trail. Till now, there have not been many trails on this trek. But you’ll see a trail here as trekkers access this part from the Tosamaidan side.
Read More
It’s the last day of the trek today. But it’s a long day and you’ll end the trek on a high :)
The day begins with an exciting river crossing after which you start ascending to a grassy ledge. As it usually happens with treks in Kashmir, you alternate between ascends and descends, usually hanging around the same altitude for a long time.
You reach the top of the ridge and then descend to your second river crossing. Descend continues after the river crossing and soon you come across a mud trail. Till now, there have not been many trails on this trek. But you’ll see a trail here as trekkers access this part from the Tosamaidan side.
Continue walking on the mud trail to come across a water source. Soon after, there’s the third stream crossing. Rest a bit after you cross the stream. Now you are towards the end of your trek. Savour the last moments.
Tosa Maidan starts at the end of the descent. It’s a beautiful landscape that reminds you of European vistas.
To your surprise, in this last leg, you’ll ascend. It’s a short ascend of merely 200 meters. But it reminds you of the nature of the trail till now. Consistently undulating.
Right after the ascend you take a U-turn and continue descending towards the diversion. This takes you to the road head. You’ll get a vehicle from the dhaba. You also get a network at the endpoint.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Bodpathri Trek?
This will tell you just how fit you must be
toggle accordion
Moderate-Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
At Indiahikes, while rating a trek difficulty we consider a number of factors. These include, altitude gained every day, length of trek everyday, highest altitude, nature of the terrain, weather etc. Base on this we rate a trek as easy or difficult or somewhere in between.
Bodpathri Trek, which climbs to 13,060 ft, is not difficult. It is rated as 'Moderate-difficult' . The trek of Bodpathri Trek is slightly easier compared to Kashmir Great Lakes. However, the trek is more challenging compared to Tarsar Marsar.
A moderate-difficult rating refers to marginally longer trekking days hovering at altitudes of around 12,000 feet on most of the days. You will be trekking for 7-8 km on average every day.
But the trek has easy exits and there are fewer technical sections .
The second factor in rating this trek under Moderate-difficult, would be the boulder sections on the trek. You come across boulder sections on almost all days of the trek. You need to have good legs and a sense of control when navigating these sections. Trekkers who are not confident in placing their footing will find it challenging to navigate swiftly through these boulder patches.
The last point would be the long descent on the last day of the trek . There are a few patches of the descent where you need to be careful. Having a trekking pole and knee cap (for those with knee niggles) helps.
Best Time to do the Bodpathri Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to be on this trek is from the beginning of July to the middle of September . That’s the only time you can trek here. In all the other seasons, Jammu & Kashmir trails are buried under snow.
This season brings up many questions in the mind of a trekker. Primarily because it is monsoon in the rest of the country. Will it rain heavily on the trek? Well, most trails in Uttarakhand are shut during this time. But things are different in Jammu & Kashmir.
If you observe the map, you see the Pir Panjal range separating Jammu & Kashmir from the rest of the Indian subcontinent. This range is 288 km long and 40-50 km wide. It blocks most rain clouds from crossing over into the Kashmir Valley.
This divide determines the nature of precipitation and the vegetation in this rainshadow area. All of which stand very different from the rest of the country.
July to September happens to be peak summer transitioning to Autumn and the best time to trek in Jammu & Kashmir. The landscape comes alive during this window. And even though the window is tight, you notice the landscape changing colour and texture as the months proceed.
Bodpathri in early July
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 2 °C and 7 °C
Presence of snow: Snow remains at higher altitudes. But the trek is more or less accessible. As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Jammu & Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month. The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
This is peak summer in Jammu & Kashmir. The upper reaches of the trek start crawling out of the snow blanket in July. It’s warm and you experience light evening showers during this month.
As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Jammu & Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month.
The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
Bodpathri from mid-July to third week of August
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Most snow has melted by now. Frozen chunks of ice in most lakes on the trail would have melted.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
After mid-July, a robust trekking season begins on the Bodpathri trek. Expect bright sunny mornings with some evening showers. Rains are still mild compared to rains in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
The trail is carpeted with green meadows everywhere. The best part is, that these meadows are densely dotted with wildflowers!
Protip: You might experience evening showers on certain days during this time of the year. This is why it is a good practice to cross the pass early in the day and reach the next campsite by 4 PM.
Bodpathri from Aug-end to second week of September
Day time temperature: Between 14 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperature : Between 0 °C and 5 °C
Presence of snow: You can expect snowfall during the second week of September
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
After the end of August, cold sets in. Rains reduce giving way to one of the best times to do the trek. The clouds part during this time of the year and you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes.
Another stark change that happens in early September is the change in the colour of the meadows. The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers change. And yet, there’s a beauty to this change of tone.
We usually stop our trek after the second week of September. It turns colder and chances of snowfall increase. That raises the difficulty of the trek and it's no longer possible to cross the pass. The trail on the other side becomes inaccessible.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
It is great to see you going on the Bodpathri Trek. While it is a great trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly.
The trek of Bodpathri starts from Doodhpathri, a touristy destination and one of the lesser-known hill stations of Kashmir. To reach Doodhpathri, the best way to reach will be to use a private vehicle.
If you are taking the pickup through Indiahikes, then your Experience Coordinator will share the details a week before your trek date. The cost from Srinagar to Doodhpathri comes to Rs. 500 per person
If you are trekking on your own, then you can either arrange for this vehicle prior from Srinagar or have your vehicle reach Doodhpathri.
Unfortunately, you do not have enough public transport to reach Doodhpathri on your own. The hill town is slightly isolated and the connecting transport is not reliable.
The journey to Doodhpathri can be divided into two parts. The first part is reaching Budgam and the second leg of your trip will be from Budgam and reaching the base town.
The first section of the drive takes you through Srinagar city and the city outskirts. The drive is about an hour away. Later once you cross the city, you have the Kashmir valley opening up. Along with the cultivations, the sight of the meadows sprawling in a few sections is a visual treat.
Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air ticket to Srinagar. If you reach in the morning, you can think about travelling to Naranag on the same day instead of staying at Srinagar. Click here for more explanation.
Note: Some stay options if you have an extra day at Srinagar: Hotel Chinar Inn , Royal Athena Houseboats and Alhamra Retreats .
Day 8: Book a return flight ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 7.
Note :
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.
On your return, your trek ends at Tosa Maidan. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar. You reach Srinagar between 5 and 6 pm.
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, which is the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to either Srinagar.
There are two options.
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. There are many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar that take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, then you have multiple options to take. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
Tip: Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT compared to the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it “ Bus Adda ”. The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Pro Tip: Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Tosa Maidan is about 3.5 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 6.00 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So you need to stay in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 8. The buffer day must be included in your itinerary. Day 7 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 8.
Note: The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. Reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
Book your flight out from Srinagar.
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
| Pro Tip: Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
4. Planning your hotel/stay
Hotel options at Srinagar
Hotel Chinar Inn is close to the pickup location. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Royal Athena Houseboats is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Alhamra Retreats is a guest house with good facilities available.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
Contact Number: +91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Why get fit for Bodpathri Trek
Fitness matters for the trek
toggle accordion
We recommend jogging as the best routine to get fit for a trek. It works on the same muscles that you use while trekking — your calves, glutes and hamstrings. It helps increase your stamina day by day. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness target:
To do this trek comfortably, you must be able to cover 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum fitness required for this trek.
How to achieve this fitness?
Start jogging at least 4 days a week
If you cannot run 5 km immediately, start with 2 km and increase to 5 km over 2-3 weeks.
Once you’re able to run 5 km, increase your pace day by day.
Gradually increase your pace and bring it down to 5 km in less than 32 mins.
You must be able to run 5 km in 32 mins consistently for at least 2 weeks before the trek.
This trek requires at least 6-8 weeks of preparation. The longer, the better. So plan your trek soon and start preparing.
Here's a complete guide to get you trek fit.
Strength training tips:
play video
How to get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
What to upload?
A minimum of 3 screenshots of your runs/jogs/walks/cycling
Monthly summary of your routine
Why fitness matters:
Every high-altitude trek comes with a set of challenges. Steep ascents and descents, uneven terrain, snow walks, stream crossings, pass crossings, and summit climb. Even the easiest of treks have some of these challenges if not all of them. Without fitness, trekkers struggle, get injured easily, lag behind, or simply fail to complete the trek.
At Indiahikes, we take pride in the fact that our trekkers are among the fittest in the country. Those who do not meet the fitness requirements are often sent back. Our philosophy is that trekking and fitness go hand in hand. Without fitness, there’s no trekking.
play video
Complete guide to get trek fit
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How many lakes will I see on the Bodpathri Trek? expand accordion
On the Bodpathri Trek, you'll come across 6 pristine alpine lakes. They are all turquoise blue. You’ll get to witness all these lakes on Day 4 and Day 5 – All in 2 days!
Pamsar Lake
Lokutsar Lake
Bodsar Lake
Navkansar I
Navkansar II
Damamsar Lake
What valleys will I witness on the Bodpathri Trek? expand accordion
The Bodpathri Trek, as the name suggests, takes you through 5 valleys of Ashtaar, Guruwansar, Pamsar Valley, Bodsar Valley & Gadtar.
The vast meadows, pine forests, glades, sweeping landscapes and stunning snow-capped peaks are all bundled together into the valleys of this trek! You get to witness this 5 times, all on different days!
Truly an experience for the ages.
How long is the Bodpathri Trek? expand accordion
On the Bodpathri Trek, you cover around 47 km in 5 days (6 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 6,175 ft in Srinagar all the way to Pamsar Lake at 13,060 ft. You’ll trek long distances around 8 km on average every day.
Is the Bodpathri Trek Safe? expand accordion
The Bodpathri Trek is safe. It is in the remote regions of Kashmir, away from the hotbed of turmoil. It is towards the more touristy Srinagar region. So the trekking trail itself is completely safe.
However, political unrest, curfews and clampdowns have occurred in the past during our trekking season. We have tackled these efficiently, never compromising on the safety of trekkers. We travel during non-curfew hours and take measures to safely pick up or drop trekkers at the airport.
Sometimes, we call off treks if the situation is too serious (for instance when Burhan Wani was shot and the political situation in Kashmir was out of control). Calling off a trek is a worst-case scenario and has not occurred too many times in the past.
Keep in mind that if we are running the Bodpathri Trek, you can assume that it is safe. We would not compromise on anyone’s safety and run it during dangerous times.
How difficult is the Bodpathri Trek? expand accordion
Bodpathri Trek is classified as Moderate-Difficult. The main reasons are longer trekking days, boulder sections on the trek and steep descent on the last day.
You trek on an average of 7-8 km everyday. There are boulder sections to navigate on almost all days of the trek. This can be really taxing on your legs. You need to have a good fitness level. Lastly, there is a long and steep descent on the last of the trek. These are what make Bodpathri a Moderate-Difficult level trek.
How fit do I need to be for Bodpathri Trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Bodpathri requires a really good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 32 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 25 km a week or 100 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
OR
Alternatively, cycle for at least 25 km in 60 minutes . Aim to cycle 125 km a week or 500 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
I’m more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes, you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Bodpathri Trek? expand accordion
You will get good Airtel & Jio connectivity all the way to Gurwansar Valley on Day 4. After that, the network is sketchy and almost non-existent. Connectivity will come back at Tosamaidan.
Note : Prepaid SIM cards do not work in Kashmir.
As for electricity, Srinagar is the last place for electricity. You won’t have access to electricity or charging points anywhere during the trek.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp of Doodhpathri? expand accordion
Since the trek ends at Tosa maidan, you cannot leave anything at the base of Doodhpathri. Also, Doodhpatri doesn’t have a fixed basecamp. So, you’ll be camping at the base camp.
However, you can leave behind your extra luggage at Srinagar. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Ensure you do not keep any valuables. Laptops, mobile phones, cash or any important items shouldn’t be kept here.
Bodpathri Trek Videos
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.