Brammah Valley Trek 2026 | A Remote Expedition in Kashmir's Kishtwar Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Brammah Valley trek
Four 6000-metre Peaks and Jammu's Cultural Richness in One Trek
We are not likely to run this trek in 2026. Please consider the Nafran Valley trek instead. View the Nafran Valley trek
Four 6000-metre peaks and Jammu's Cultural Richness in one trek
While some of our treks in Jammu & Kashmir are very popular, only a few know that other treks in Jammu & Kashmir are equally exciting, yet the adventure is different.
The new Brammah Valley trek in the Kishtwar National Park blends the beauty of Jammu & Kashmir with the kind of landscape we have not usually seen on treks.
play video
First, the Brammah Valley trek offers stunning views of the four prominent peaks of Kishtwar, all above 6,000 m. Getting so close to such big summits on a trek is rare . It’s not just the summit; you see these big mountains from the base to the summit! To compare, at Gaumukh Tapovan, trekkers see the full height of Mt. Shivling and are in complete awe. They get to see around 2,500 metres of the mountain. On the Brammah Valley trek, you see almost 4,000 metres of the big mountains in one go! The impact is nearly two times as much.
Read more
expand overview
First, the Brammah Valley trek offers stunning views of the four prominent peaks of Kishtwar, all above 6,000 m. Getting so close to such big summits on a trek is rare . It’s not just the summit; you see these big mountains from the base to the summit! To compare, at Gaumukh Tapovan, trekkers see the full height of Mt. Shivling and are in complete awe. They get to see around 2,500 metres of the mountain. On the Brammah Valley trek, you see almost 4,000 metres of the big mountains in one go! The impact is nearly two times as much.
You also camp next to these mountains at Kiddar Maidan, the trek's unique river delta campsite. From the Kiddar Maidan campsite, on your left are the Eiger and Tarparan summits. On your right lies Mt. Brammah I, the second-highest peak in Jammu. Right next to it is the prominent Mt. Brammah Wife (surprisingly, that is the name!)
On the other hand, almost every trekker is enchanted by the rich cultural experience on this trek. 'The residents of Kishtwar are well-known for their distinctive culture, practises, and language. Unlike the rest of Kashmir, we see temples and mosques coexisting. A part of our trek falls on the trek to the Hudh Mata temple. Even the architecture of the houses is distinctive. On the trek, we pass through tiny villages hanging on hillsides . Yet, from their precarious perches, the homes display an architecture from a world we rarely see.
On this trek, you are trekking through the heart of the Kishtwar National Park. Kishtwar is known for its dense forest. You trek through the forests every day of your trek. The gradient of these forests is gently ascending with short, steep sections, making it a very pleasant trek.
These are primarily coniferous, with a heady scent wafting through the woods as you trek along. In between are maples, except for a small patch of beautiful silver birch trees just before Kiddar Maidan. The variety of coniferous trees you find on this trek is unmatched. There are Chir pines, Deodars, Abies pin-drow, and spruces. The trees are sometimes so tall that they almost touch the sky.
What trekkers will love about these forests is how they are laid out. Every moment in the forest is mesmerising . Now and then, lovely clearings pop out of the forests. At other times, sunlight streams in through the trees in wonderful layers.
At every turn, there are exciting views. It becomes like a game to see what new surprises the forests have in store for us.
The Nath river accompanies you throughout the trek. Even while trekking in the deep forests, you constantly hear the river. The river starts to calm down as you trek deeper into the valley and becomes completely silent when you reach Kiddar Maidan. In the extensive grasslands of Kiddar Maidan, beside the silently gliding Nath river, is where we camp. If there were awards for the most beautiful campsites on our treks — this would be one of the top contenders.
Kishtwar is surrounded by high mountains, making it a natural fortress. The steep mountains provide a natural barrier to the outside world. This may be why Kistwar has always been so isolated from the rest of the country.
The Kistwar valley is also known for its alpine meadows and high-altitude wetlands. Our Brammah Valley trek takes us through each of these wonders.
In the Brammah valley, trekkers will find a new world of discovery waiting to be made. Trekkers must take advantage of the few spots we have available on the trek this year.
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Brammah Valley : Take on the adventure of trekking to Brammah Valley, arguably the prettiest trek In India, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Sounder on Day 1 to dinner at Sounder on Day 6 are covered in your trek fee.
Accommodation
Local Homestay: Experience the rich culture of Kashmir by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.a
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base:
- You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The transport cost should be paid directly to the driver while travelling to and from the base camp. We will arrange the pickup and drop from Indira Chowk (J&K Bank ATM), Jammu - https://goo.gl/maps/h5bEpwY3q9Ce4L8aA . The cost of transport has to be borne by the trekkers together. It'll cost Rs 10,000 for a 5-6 seater vehicle. The vehicle will be non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs. 4000 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Brammah Valley - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Brammah Valley Trek. It has in-depth information about each trekking day, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Drive from Jammu to Sounder Village via Kishtwar
Drive: 268 km | Duration: 12 hours | Pick up point: Indira Chowk, Jammu
Transport will be organised at 3:00 am from Indira Chowk (J&K Bank ATM), Jammu - https://goo.gl/maps/h5bEpwY3q9Ce4L8aA . However the cost of travel has to be paid by the trekkers. It will cost Rs 10,000 for 5-6 seater vehicle. The vehicle will be non-AC.
Day 2
Trek from Sounder village to Gogut campsite
Trek distance: 12 km | Duration: 8 hours | Altitude: 5,600 ft to 7,890 ft
Day 3
Trek from Gogut to Kaikut campsite
Trek distance: 8 km | Duration: 6 hours | Altitude: 7,890 ft to 9,577 ft
Day 4
Trek from Kaikut campsite to Kiddar Maidan (Chhater Chinan); Excursion at River Delta
Trek distance: 4.5 km | Duration: 3 hours | Altitude: 9,577 ft to 10,960 ft; to 11,600 ft and back to 10,960 ft
Day 5
Trek from Kiddar Maidan to Gogut campsite
Trek distance: 12 km | Duration: 6 hours | Altitude: 10,960 ft to 8,745 ft
Day 6
Trek from Gogut to Sounder village
Trek distance: 12 km | Duration: 7 hours | Altitude: 8,745 ft to 5,600 ft
Day 7
Drive from Sounder to Jammu via Kishtwar
Drive Distance: 268 km | Duration: 11 hours | Drop-off time: 7 pm
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on weather conditions and your route. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory:
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield .
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up day): Drive from Jammu to Sounder Village via Kishtwar
Drive Duration: 12 hours | Drive Distance: 268 km
Today is a travel day. It’s a long journey on a scenic route to Sounder village. It's a comfortable drive on the National Highway until Kishtwar.
From Kishtwar, the road conditions deteriorate but the drive gets more scenic. The Chenab river accompanies you. Just a few kilometres before Sounder, the Chenab river splits into Chandrabhaga and Marwah rivers. There onwards, the road to Sounder village follows Marwah river.
Once you reach Sounder village - the base camp of the trek, explore around. Talk to the villagers. It gives a good insight into the culture and lifestyle of the locals. It’s only on treks like this, you get an opportunity to interact with the people of remote villages in our country.
Read More
Today is a travel day. It’s a long journey on a scenic route to Sounder village. It's a comfortable drive on the National Highway until Kishtwar.
From Kishtwar, the road conditions deteriorate but the drive gets more scenic. The Chenab river accompanies you. Just a few kilometres before Sounder, the Chenab river splits into Chandrabhaga and Marwah rivers. There onwards, the road to Sounder village follows Marwah river.
Once you reach Sounder village - the base camp of the trek, explore around. Talk to the villagers. It gives a good insight into the culture and lifestyle of the locals. It’s only on treks like this, you get an opportunity to interact with the people of remote villages in our country.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Sounder village to Gogut campsite
Trek Duration: 8 hours | Trek Distance: 12 km
Altitude gain: 5,600 ft to 7,890 ft
The trek starts from Sounder village. Sounder is a village located on the bank of the Kibber river surrounded by beautiful farmlands.
About 2km metres ahead of Sounder village, you come to Suid village. Cross the wooden bridge to get onto the other side of the Nath river. Continue to trek in the beautiful farmlands ahead. You get closer to the Nath river and start trekking parallel to it from this point.
Continue your trek parallel to Nath river to reach the big rock point called Druna Giri. Just a few metres ahead of this is a place called Bhuman Chor. The legend says that Bheem from the Mahabharatha used to bathe here.
Read More
The trek starts from Sounder village. Sounder is a village located on the bank of the Kibber river surrounded by beautiful farmlands.
About 2km metres ahead of Sounder village, you come to Suid village. Cross the wooden bridge to get onto the other side of the Nath river. Continue to trek in the beautiful farmlands ahead. You get closer to the Nath river and start trekking parallel to it from this point.
Continue your trek parallel to Nath river to reach the big rock point called Druna Giri. Just a few metres ahead of this is a place called Bhuman Chor. The legend says that Bheem from the Mahabharatha used to bathe here.
It’s a flat walk in the valley for almost half a kilometre until you reach another wooden bridge. As you cross the bridge to enter the right side of the river again, a steep ascent starts. It’s a switchback trail. You have now entered the forest section.
As you trek under the shades of tall coniferous trees for a kilometre more, you enter the territory of Honzad village. The village is on your left-hand side, on the other side of the river. But you can see the beautiful houses of Honzad from the distance. A little ahead is the forest rest house. There is a camping ground just next to the forest resthouse.
After this, you enter the dense forest trail. This is a mixed pine forest with an abundance of chir pine trees and abies pindrow with a sprinkle of maple trees. The trail is well laid throughout. The forest section opens up to a view of the valley every now and then to your left. It’s quite a refreshing easy walk in the dense forest trail.
About 1.5 km of a trek later, you enter another village called Nath - the last village on the trek. Nath is a hanging village to your left on the other side of the river and you get a beautiful aerial view of this village from the trail. This is one of those villages where you can witness people from different religions come together and live in absolute harmony.
About 100 metres ahead is a small water stream that you have to cross on foot. This trek has water sources in abundance. Just after this, there is a diversion through wooden bridge to cross the Nath river and get to the Nath village. But continue on the trail ahead in the same direction.
From Nath village, the trail dives into the forest section again and continues for the next 4 km until you reach the Gogut campsite. But at every turn, you come across an opening that offers you jaw-dropping views of the valley. Savour every bit of this forest walk.
Before you know it, you reach Gogut - the first campsite of the trek. It’s a beautiful clearing with a water stream flowing behind and the gushing river flowing on the left. The high mountains rise on both sides. There is a small temple also.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Gogut to Kaikut campsite
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 8 km
Altitude gain: 7,890 ft to 9,577 ft
Today is another long day. From the Gogut campsite, continue towards the wooden bridge. The trail is in the forest section dominated by pine trees. The forest section today is more serene and isolated as there is no habitation going further.
Continue your trek in the pine forest for another 700 metres, and you will come across a landslide zone. Be cautious while navigating here. A few 100 metres ahead is an opening on your left. You trek on the banks of the Nath river in this stretch. At the end of this stretch is a place called Bhujal Bhath.
Half a kilometre ahead is where the valley opens up again. Similar to what you experienced on Day 2, the forest section opens up every now and then to offer you breathtaking views of the Brammah valley. From here, the trail ascends. About 300 metres ahead, you come across a broken trail. Navigate carefully through this section. It’s a steep ascent from here to Chugnu.
Read More
Today is another long day. From the Gogut campsite, continue towards the wooden bridge. The trail is in the forest section dominated by pine trees. The forest section today is more serene and isolated as there is no habitation going further.
Continue your trek in the pine forest for another 700 metres, and you will come across a landslide zone. Be cautious while navigating here. A few 100 metres ahead is an opening on your left. You trek on the banks of the Nath river in this stretch. At the end of this stretch is a place called Bhujal Bhath.
Half a kilometre ahead is where the valley opens up again. Similar to what you experienced on Day 2, the forest section opens up every now and then to offer you breathtaking views of the Brammah valley. From here, the trail ascends. About 300 metres ahead, you come across a broken trail. Navigate carefully through this section. It’s a steep ascent from here to Chugnu.
After Chugnu, you cross the river through a bridge. From here, you again start trekking on the left of the river. Continue to trek in the sparse pine forest for a few 100 metres to reach a grand opening. This reminds you of the Kashmir landscape. On a clear day, you get the first glimpse of Eiger and Tarparan peaks from here.
As you go a little further, you get to see a beautiful waterfall on your right. The terrain from here is a river bed with loose scree. During heavy rains, the river flow extends to this section as well. In that case, there is another longer trail right next to it which you can take.
Going further, you reach another opening called Kulsar before entering the forest again. Now, it’s an ascent inside the forest. Savour this forest trail as this is the last forest stretch for the day. About a kilometre of ascent will open up to the views of the valley. This point is called Waathaval. There is a shrine next to it.
500 metres from Waathaval is another flat meadow called Hawal. It’s a beautiful place. The valley opens up from here. A few metres ahead is a stream crossing. Cross the stream hopping onto the boulders. There are some shepherd's huts ahead of this.
The trail is now again on the river bed. 400 metres of a trek along the river bed takes you to a Shiva temple. There is a water source next to it as well. You can replenish your water supplies here.
Half a kilometre ahead is another stream crossing. These stream crossings are notorious during heavy rains. So be cautious of your footing. Almost a kilometre ahead, you get the first glimpse of Mt Brammah Wife. Half a kilometre ahead is the second campsite of the trek - Kaikut.
Kaikut is a beautiful campsite that offers mesmerizing views of the Eiger, Tartaran and Brammah Wife peaks. Alpen glow on these during golden hour is something you must not miss.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Kaikut campsite to Kiddar Maidan (Chhater Chinan); Excursion at River Delta
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance: 4.5 km
Altitude gain: 9,577 ft to 10,960 ft; to 11,600 ft and back to 10,960 ft
Today is the summit day. Brammah Valley is one of the very few treks where you get to camp next to the summit. As you go ahead from Kaikut, there is a water stream and a clearing. A little ahead is a god idol.
From here, there are two trails that lead to Hudh Mata temple. The trail on the left is through the stairs and on the right is the trail that takes you through the forest. Hudh Mata is a temple that has religious significance to the people of this region. There is a Yatra that happens in the month of July every year, for which people from across villages and cities come and offer their prayers.
The trail goes through the meadows first and then ascends into the forest through stairs. These stairs lead to Hudh Mata temple. People believe it to be having supernatural powers.
Read More
Today is the summit day. Brammah Valley is one of the very few treks where you get to camp next to the summit. As you go ahead from Kaikut, there is a water stream and a clearing. A little ahead is a god idol.
From here, there are two trails that lead to Hudh Mata temple. The trail on the left is through the stairs and on the right is the trail that takes you through the forest. Hudh Mata is a temple that has religious significance to the people of this region. There is a Yatra that happens in the month of July every year, for which people from across villages and cities come and offer their prayers.
The trail goes through the meadows first and then ascends into the forest through stairs. These stairs lead to Hudh Mata temple. People believe it to be having supernatural powers.
Take the trail that descends to the left of Hudh Mata temple. You come across the forest rest house first and then a rock cave where yatris used to stay before. A little bit of descent in the forest again takes you to a nala (stream). Crossing this Nala is risky, especially in monsoon. Because of many stream crossings like these, this trek is not safe to do in monsoons.
As you trek further, the mountains get closer and closer to you. You start seeing Brammah Wife and Brammah I peaks as well. At this point, Brammah Wife is closer to you. As you continue your trek, Brammah I starts getting closer and closer to you. And you see Eiger and Tarparan peaks on the other side.
Around 3 km from the Hudh Mata Temple is a rain shelter and the Trisangiya temple. 1 km ahead is a wooden bridge through which you cross the river and continue on the other side of the Nath river again. This is also where a trail that diverges from the main trail.
100 metres ahead, you enter the beautiful silver birch forest again. This is a small stretch of a forest and the treeline ends after this. At the end of this 200 metres of forest stretch, you come across a forest hut. A 100 meters ahead of this is Kiddar Maidan - the most beautiful campsite of the trek.
To the right of the Kiddar Maidan is Brammah ridge - the highest point of the trek. It’s around 500 metres of a trek with a steep final climb to the ridge. It’s a vantage point from where you get to witness the close-up view of Brammah I and Brammah Wife. This gives you a summit climb feeling too.
You come back to the Kiddar Maidan and stay there for the day. Kiddar campsite is located on the river delta surrounded by the majestic snow-capped mountains. This campsite has everything. It is bordered by silver birch trees on one side and high-rising mountains on the other side. It’s a huge clearing with lots of scopes to explore around. The alpine glow on mountain peaks during sunset is the one to die for.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Kiddar Maidan to Gogut Campsite
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 10.1 km
Altitude loss: 10,960 ft to 8,745 ft
From Kiddar Maidan, you take back the same route that you have come. But this day instead of staying at Kaikut, you camp at Gogut campsite. This is just after the river bed you come across on Day 3.
Hawal campsite is a clearing with high-rising mountains on either side. It gives you a feeling of camping in a valley. With the campsite being different, though you are trekking on the same route, it gives you a different experience altogether. Rest well as tomorrow is going to be a long day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
From Kiddar Maidan, you take back the same route that you have come. But this day instead of staying at Kaikut, you camp at Gogut campsite. This is just after the river bed you come across on Day 3.
Hawal campsite is a clearing with high-rising mountains on either side. It gives you a feeling of camping in a valley. With the campsite being different, though you are trekking on the same route, it gives you a different experience altogether. Rest well as tomorrow is going to be a long day.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Hawal to Sounder village
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek Distance: 13.3 km
Altitude loss: 8,745 ft to 5,600 ft
From Hawal, continue your trek back towards Sounder. It’s a tad long day with 7 hours of trekking. But it’s the last day of the trek, so savour every bit of it. Enchanting pine forests, adventurous stream crossings and villages that give you a sneak peek into culture of Jammu are some things to look forward to.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
From Hawal, continue your trek back towards Sounder. It’s a tad long day with 7 hours of trekking. But it’s the last day of the trek, so savour every bit of it. Enchanting pine forests, adventurous stream crossings and villages that give you a sneak peek into culture of Jammu are some things to look forward to.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Drive from Sounder to Jammu via Kishtwar
Drive: 268 km | Duration: 11 hours
Drive back to Jammu via Kishtwar. It takes about 11 hours to reach Jammu.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
Drive back to Jammu via Kishtwar. It takes about 11 hours to reach Jammu.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Brammah Valley Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for fit beginners
You will cover a total of around 48.5 km in five trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 6,000 ft (5,600 ft to 11,600 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections. Some difficult sections on this trek require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
The Brammah Valley Trek involves long days of trekking. Almost every day, you trek 8 to 10 km. Sometimes even 12 to 13 km.
The first day has good ascents and descents. The last two days are also long, and all downhill. This can be hard on your knees.
There are multiple stream crossings on the trek with no bridges. Being nimble on your feet is extremely important while crossing these streams.
There are some narrow ledge sections. Not too technical but our team will be there to guide you safely.
Sometimes, from Kiddar Maidan, we take a steep climb up to a ridge. This gives you a magical view. It’s not compulsory. But if you're fit, go for it. Kiddar Maidan itself is very beautiful, so don’t worry if you skip the climb.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall lasting hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on, while snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Too much rain can flood the entire Kedar Maidan campsite, since it sits on a river delta. That’s why we avoid running this trek during the monsoon — unlike most Kashmir treks, where monsoon is actually the best time to go..
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
At the summit, Brammah Valley reaches 11,600 ft. That is not too high. You start at around 6,000 feet. You gain about 2,000 feet each day. This slow gain helps your body adjust. So, altitude sickness is less likely.
However, at altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
On the Brammah Valley Trek, the only exit point is Sounder. So, if there are emergencies on the trail, you need to return all the way to the trek start point.
Closest Hospital to the Brammah Valley Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is at Kishtwar. It’s about 2 km from the trek start point, Sounder. If you need serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities. Srinagar is a 7 hr drive from Sounder.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Brammah Valley Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
There is a very short window during the whole year when the Brammah Valley trek is accessible. It is in the months of May, June and September.
Brammah Valley in Summer (May and June)
Day time: Between 18 °C and 24 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 3 °C and 8 °C.
Presence of snow: Snow in the upper reaches. Not necessarily on the trail.
No. of warm layers required: 2 warm layers.
In the months of May and June, the whole valley is greener and there are patches of snow in the upper reaches. The skies are clearer and you can expect light showers at the end of June. Trekking under the shade of tall pine trees next to the gushing Nath River is an experience cherished by everyone to date.
Brammah Valley in Post-Monsoon (September)
Day time: Between 8 °C and 10 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -5 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow on the trail.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers.
In September you’ll notice the monsoons have turned the valley into a lush green. The air is also clearer offering you a better view of the surrounding landscapes. You might get occasional showers at early September.
As autumn arrives, the temperatures start dropping and there is a crisp chill in the air. You’ll observe the high mountain peaks experiencing the odd snowfall or two.
But down in the valley, the greens start turning to a shade of brown until they’re golden in October and November.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
It is great to see you going on the Brammah Valley Trek, one of the most beautiful treks in India. While it is a great trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly.
Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
Planning your onward flight/train booking
Day 0: Reach Jammu by train/flight and stay overnight there. That is, if your trek date is from 20th May to 26th May, reach Jammu on 19th May.
Day 1: Your transport from Jammu to Sounder village will be arranged by Indiahikes. The pickup cab will leave from Indira Chowk, Jammu by 3:00 AM. You will reach Sounder by 4:00 PM.
Planning your return flight/train booking
You will be reaching back to Jammu on Day 7 of your trek by 5 PM. Plan your return journey post 9 PM on Day 7 if you are booking train. But for flight, it’s best to stay in Jammu on Day 7 and book your flight for Day 8.
Planning your hotel/stay
Hotel Lords Inn is one of the options where you can stay in Jammu. You can easily find other options online. But make sure you book a hotel near the pick-up point.
Bloom Hotel - Jammu
Location: https://maps.app.goo.gl/VCTBdBUky9t3y7T9A
Hotel City Heart
Location: https://maps.app.goo.gl/yGb1H35dfSWbqhG57
Royal Inn
Location: https://maps.app.goo.gl/yYTgv7XynrQqLrgE9
What if you miss Indiahikes Pick Up?
In case if you miss Indiahikes pick up, you will find shared taxis leaving to Kishtwar from Indira Chowk, Jammu. The taxis from 3:00 AM onwards. It will cost around Rs 900 per person.
From Kishtwar Taxi Stand, you will find shared taxis leaving to Sounder. The last taxi leaves at 2:30 PM. It will cost around Rs 400 per person.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Brammah Valley Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Brammah Valley Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Brammah Valley Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Brammah Valley Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
1. Do I get any mobile network on the trek? expand accordion
No. You will not find mobile network connectivity on the days that you will be trekking. The last point of connectivity is Sounder Village where you start your trek.
2. Where will I find ATMs on the trek? expand accordion
Kishtwar is the nearest town where you can get ATM facilities. They are not always reliable. So it’s best to withdraw cash before you leave Jammu.
3. Will there be electricity at the campsites on the trek? expand accordion
There is no electricity throughout the trek. The only place you’ll find a plug to charge your phone or camera batteries will be at Sounder, the basecamp of the trek.
Therefore use your electronic equipment wisely. Fully charge your batteries before leaving your hotel and use your electronic equipment minimally.
Another thing to note is that cold temperatures drain the batteries faster. Having extra batteries or a power bank helps.
4. Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack. In such a case, write an email to your experience coordinator beforehand. You can't offload after reaching the basecamp at the last minute.
The total cost of offloading on the Brammah Valley trek is Rs 4,000 without GST.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.