Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek 2026 | Witness India’s Rich Forest Trails Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
CHHATTISGARH JUNGLE TREK
Why This Is India’s Best-Kept Jungle Secret
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have expert Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Why this trek is India’s best-kept jungle secret
Hidden in the dense jungles of the Chota Nagpur plateau is our Chhattisgarh jungle trek. With its crystal-clear rivers, mysterious prehistoric caves, golden lakes, and thick forests, it transports you to Rudyard Kipling’s Jungle Book world. Our trekkers are so used to our Himalayan treks that they don’t know how different and wonderful our central Indian treks are.
With access given only to Indiahikes, this trek is one of India’s best-kept trekking secrets.
play video
Step into rarely trekked central Indian forests
On the very first day, you’ll enter the open deciduous forests of the Chota Nagpur plateau—where the trees are dense, yet the jungle can be seen through for a far distance. This is the same wilderness where the last Indian cheetahs once sprinted. Very few trekkers have seen these forests.
Read more
expand overview
Step into rarely trekked central Indian forests
On the very first day, you’ll enter the open deciduous forests of the Chota Nagpur plateau—where the trees are dense, yet the jungle can be seen through for a far distance. This is the same wilderness where the last Indian cheetahs once sprinted. Very few trekkers have seen these forests.
Discover prehistoric caves in the middle of the forests
Strange rock formations rise from the forest floor, frozen in time like volcanic bubbles. Hidden even deeper are prehistoric caves that guard paintings 10,000 years old—an era much before known human settlement and many thousands of years before the Indus Valley civilisation.
As you gaze at these paintings of men, animals, and communities, the only question that comes to mind is, How did ancient humans get inside such dense jungles and why?
Camp by a golden lake wrapped in mist
From the depths of the jungle, the landscape suddenly opens to reveal a pristine lake, its calm waters cradled by hills on three sides. Forests cascade down the slopes, only to halt at grassy glades that meet the shore. As the mist rises in golden swirls at dawn, the lake becomes a sanctuary for birds. What trekkers love the most is that we camp in this serene masterpiece!
Walk on the crystal clear Gopat river
On the final day, the trek takes an extraordinary turn. You’ll walk for over 5 kilometres on the Gopat River’s crystal-clear bed as it winds through the jungle. With cool water swirling around your ankles, the forest unfolds around you with every step. Trekkers remember this unique day as one of their highlights. You'll also camp on the river's sandy beaches, surrounded by dense jungle and a starlit sky the previous evening.
A rare trek in one of India's protected national park
This trek is truly special. The Forest Department restricts access to these untouched jungles. Here, away from safari tourism, you’ll explore a pristine wilderness that feels like it belongs to Rudyard Kipling’s Jungle Book. Few know of Guru Ghasidas National Park—a sanctuary sprawling over 1,440 square kilometres, larger than Ranthambore and Kanha Tiger Reserve combined. Trekking through this national park is a privilege only a few trekkers will ever experience.
Though not particularly steep or rugged, this trek challenges you with long daily walks—around 10 kilometres through forested trails. Fitness is important. Please prepare well.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
Accommodation
Stay is included from Day 1 to Day 3 (Turripani to Pandopara). You will be camping on all the days of the trek. 2 trekkers will be sharing one tent.
Meals
All meals from evening tea snacks in Turripani on Day 1 to lunch at Pandopara on Day 4 are included. We provide simple, nutritious vegetarian food on all days of the trek.
Camping Charges
All trek permits and camping charges are included.
Trek Equipment
High-quality tents, sleeping bags are included in your trek fee. Technical equipment ropes, axes etc., are also provided as and when required.
Safety Equipment
Your Trek Leader comes equipped with a Medical Kit.
Trek Exclusions
Transport to and from the base camp
The transport cost is shared between the trekkers and paid directly to the driver while travelling to and from the base camp. The cost of transport is Rs. 4400 per person (two-way) from Raipur to Turripani and back to Raipur on day 4 . Pickup will be arranged from Raipur Railway Station .
Food during transit
Any food you have during your travel to and from the base camp is in your own expense.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage in Turripani village, chargeable at Rs 200 per luggage.
(Please avoid suitcases or larger bags; the basecamp is a 200-meter walk from the roadhead).
Rentals
You don't need to break the bank in order to get high-quality trekking gear. You spend 1/10th of the buying cost by renting. We have a range of products available in our rental store. View rental gear here .
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rainfall, flash floods , hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects, ticks, etc can pose a serious threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Trail-Related risks and personal injuries:
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and smooth or loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, dehydration, heat cramps or other heat-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of dehydration, heatstroke or any injuries while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to the base or any safer location.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from continuing the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a trek with rough, rocky and slippery terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including medical certificates and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek - Complete Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Chhattisgarh Jungle trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek (representative image).
Day 1
Drive from Raipur to Turripani
Drive Distance: 365 km | Drive Duration: 8 hours | Pick-up Time: 6 am | Pick-up Location: Raipur Railway Station Parking
The cost of transport is Rs. 4400 per person (two-way) from Raipur to Turripani and back to Raipur on day 4. These are mostly 6-seater SUVs. The contact number of your driver & details will be shared a day or two before your departure. The vehicles shall start the journey at 6 AM sharp.
Stay facility at Turripani: We host you at a cosy dormitory in a charming mud-house, an icon of local culture in the region.
Day 2
Trek from Turripani to Tadiyabaan
Trek Distance: 8 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Day 3
Trek from Tadiyabaan to Pandopara
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours
Day 4
Trek from Pandopara to Singhor Roadhead. Drive to Raipur via Turripani
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours
Drive Distance: 365 km | Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drop-off Time: 11 pm
The cost of transport is Rs. 4400 per person (two-way) from Raipur to Turripani and back to Raipur on day 4. These are mostly 6-seater SUVs.
Please note: You will reach Raipur quite late at night on the last day. Please book your overnight stay at Raipur in advance.
Important Advisory:
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield .
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Drive from Raipur to Turripani
Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 365 kms
Pick up will be arranged from Raipur Railway Station at 6 AM.
The drive from Raipur starts at 6 AM. You cross Bilaspur and arrive at Baikunthpur in the afternoon.
You are just 50 km away from Turripani now. It is from here that the essence of the journey to Guru Ghasidas National Park begins to unfold.
From Baikunthpur, the road starts to climb up the ghat section very soon. In 25 km of a quick winding road, you reach Sonhat the last little town before the National Park. Sonhat is also the range office of the forest department. Have your breakfast here before heading into the forest gate 5 km away. Sonhat is also where you get your last phone signal. Inside the National Park, only BSNL signal exists in pockets.
Read More
The drive from Raipur starts at 6 AM. You cross Bilaspur and arrive at Baikunthpur in the afternoon.
You are just 50 km away from Turripani now. It is from here that the essence of the journey to Guru Ghasidas National Park begins to unfold.
From Baikunthpur, the road starts to climb up the ghat section very soon. In 25 km of a quick winding road, you reach Sonhat the last little town before the National Park. Sonhat is also the range office of the forest department. Have your breakfast here before heading into the forest gate 5 km away. Sonhat is also where you get your last phone signal. Inside the National Park, only BSNL signal exists in pockets.
Once inside the forest gate at Mendra Check Post, you are in the middle of thick Sal forests on either side. The road cuts through in-between the trees. For most of the 30 km journey through the forest, you are the only vehicle on the road. It is a public road with check-posts.
Right after crossing the Mendra Check Post, you cross a very important landmark where the 82.5 degree East meridian, which is used as the longitude for setting Indian Standard Time, intersects with the 23.5 degree North latitude, famously called the Tropic of Cancer. It is actually the exact center of the Indian Sub-Continent and you drive right past it on your way to Turripani, the first campsite of the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek.
The drive continues to wind through Sal trees until you reach Turripani. The sunset that you witness before arriving at the village, is spectacular.
At Turripani, experience the charm of traditional mud-houses, an iconic symbol of local culture. Your accommodation is set in one such classic mud-built homestay with a comfortable dormitory facility.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Turripani to Tadiyabaan
Trek Duration: 4.5 hours | Trek Distance: 8 km
Difficulty: Easy. Gently rolling terrain through mixed forests before reaching the beautiful Tadiyabaan lake, where you will camp for the night.
Water Source: The only water source is the Tadiyabaan lake where you end today's trek today.
Start the day by walking out of Turripani for about 200 meters, and heading straight into the jungle. You will see the path you took the previous day on your left.
Most of today's walk is on red soil through the see-through Sal forests. As you walk further on the trail, you see a big hill covered with trees in front of you. This is Raja Pahad (or a 'hill').
Keep walking in a similar setting for almost 6 kilometres, before finally reaching the Tadiyabaan lake. Your campsite is not there yet. You will have to walk through the length of the lake for more than a kilometre to get to your Tadiyabaan campsite.
Read More
Start the day by walking out of Turripani for about 200 meters, and heading straight into the jungle. You will see the path you took the previous day on your left.
Most of today's walk is on red soil through the see-through Sal forests. As you walk further on the trail, you see a big hill covered with trees in front of you. This is Raja Pahad (or a 'hill').
Keep walking in a similar setting for almost 6 kilometres, before finally reaching the Tadiyabaan lake. Your campsite is not there yet. You will have to walk through the length of the lake for more than a kilometre to get to your Tadiyabaan campsite.
After a long walk through the forest, walking by the side of this huge lake is a welcome change.
Retire for the day in this refreshing setting before your challenging trek begins tomorrow.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Tadiyabaan to Pandopara
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance: 10 km
Difficulty: Moderate - Difficult. The most tiring and the most rewarding day of the trek. There is a good amount of elevation through dense forests on this day. Camp right on the river bed after a long day's trek at Pandopara.
Water Source: Refill your bottles from Tadiyabaan lake before heading out. Although you come across multiple streams and a river, the water might not be fit for drinking.
Get ready for the most challenging day of your trek yet. Start taking the same route back, by the side of the lake for a kilometre before taking a left from yesterday's trail.
You will soon start an almost 800-foot ascent another kilometre from the fork.
The forest gets dense as you gain altitude. In some places, you will feel like you are in a northeastern jungle where sunlight hardly falls to the ground. The ascent gets steeper over the distance. To give you a perspective, for more than 3 kilometres, you will only climb till you reach the highest point of the trek at 2,820 feet!
Read More
Get ready for the most challenging day of your trek yet. Start taking the same route back, by the side of the lake for a kilometre before taking a left from yesterday's trail.
You will soon start an almost 800-foot ascent another kilometre from the fork.
The forest gets dense as you gain altitude. In some places, you will feel like you are in a northeastern jungle where sunlight hardly falls to the ground. The ascent gets steeper over the distance. To give you a perspective, for more than 3 kilometres, you will only climb till you reach the highest point of the trek at 2,820 feet!
On the way, you will come across a natural boulder that is in the shape of a cobra. You can draw parallels to the rock on which Simba gets his name in the Lion King movie. It looks the same.
From here, you will reach the highest point of the trek at 2,820 ft. Take in the scenery of lush green jungles you see from this vantage point.
It is all downhill now. And that means the tricky terrain you have to navigate. Take it slow and put your feet firmly, one step at a time. This continues for almost 2 kilometres.
Once the descent ends, you will find yourself on a riverbed, with the river flowing not more than your ankle height. This is Pandopara, your campsite for the day.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Pandopara to Singhor Roadhead. Drive to Raipur.
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance: 5 km
Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 365 km
Difficulty: Easy. A mellow walk on the river where water flows ankle-high, all the way to the roadhead.
Water Source: The flowing river is your water source for the day. We recommend refilling your bottles once you reach the roadhead, as the ankle-deep river might not be suitable for drinking.
The last day of your trek is a reward for all the hard work you have done over the past 3 days.
Today, you will walk in the river . Since the river never goes above your ankle, you can choose to walk the entire trail in the middle of the river, feeling the cool water flowing under and over your feet.
The entire stretch of about 4.5 kilometres can be walked barefoot! There is no other trek that gives you this luxury. Trust us, this is extremely therapeutic.
Read More
The last day of your trek is a reward for all the hard work you have done over the past 3 days.
Today, you will walk in the river . Since the river never goes above your ankle, you can choose to walk the entire trail in the middle of the river, feeling the cool water flowing under and over your feet.
The entire stretch of about 4.5 kilometres can be walked barefoot! There is no other trek that gives you this luxury. Trust us, this is extremely therapeutic.
When the trek ends at Singhor roadhead, you'd wish for this walk to continue for a whole day. You will feel lazy getting out of the river.
Your Indiahikes pick-up vehicle will be waiting by the time you finish the trek. From Singhor Roadhead, you will first drive to Turripani for hot lunch. Return your rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage at Turripani. After a thoughtful and insightful debriefing, hop into the vehicle again for your long drive back to Raipur.
Since it will be night by the time you reach Raipur, the vehicle shall drop you at the respective hotels where you have booked your overnight stay. Drop-offs to Raipur Airport can also be arranged if required.
go to previous day Day 3
How Difficult is the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy
Suitable for Beginners
You will cover a total of around 23 km in three trekking days. Every day will include gradual ascents and descents.
The Terrain:
About 1 km into the trek from Turripani, there’s a steep descent to a spring. The trail here is rocky and uneven. It can really test your balance, so move slowly and watch your step.
Just before reaching Tadiyaban, you’ll walk along a narrow ledge. The valley drops steeply to your left. It’s not a technically difficult section, but you need to be alert and step carefully.
From Tadiyaban, you need to negotiate a steady ascent to the mountain top on the way to Pandopora. It is a 3 km relentless ascent to a cobra‑shaped boulder It takes around 2 hours. The climb isn’t as intense as a Himalayan trek, but it’s still a good challenge.
The descent from this top to the shallow riverbed at Pandopora is the trickiest part of the trek. The trail is covered in loose, red gravelly soil. There are 3–4 sharp zigzag bends. These sections are slippery and require extra caution.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
You are trekking in the heart of India. The tropic of Cancer passing through the state is responsible for the temperature fluctuations throughout the state.
Sudden showers can happen anytime in the monsoon season. Rainfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on.
However, we only run this trek in the Winter months at Indiahikes. You can expect clear and pleasant weather on the trek from November to February.
Please Note:
The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
The Indiahikes team is equipped with medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any emergency.
Emergency Exits:
Since Guru Ghasidas National Park is well connected by mud roads. The trek has exit points from every campsite. All the campsites are accessible by off-road vehicles. So, in case of any emergencies, you just have to reach the nearest campsite.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Closest Hospital to the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospitals are the Primary Health Centres at Singhor and Ramgarh. For better facilities, head to Bilaspur or Raipur.
Best Time to do the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to be on this trek is from mid-October to the end of January. In fact, that’s the only time you can trek here. In all the other seasons, the Chhattisgarh Jungle trek either gets too hot, or is bashed with heavy rains.
Mid-October to the end of January is the ideal time to do this trek because the rains have cleared all the haze and the temperature becomes cooler. The jungles of Central India are best experienced in these cooler months. The overall atmosphere makes for a very pleasant trek experience.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
Book your air or train ticket to Raipur.
If you are traveling by flight, you can fly to Raipur from almost all the major cities like Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Delhi, etc.
If you are traveling by train, there are railway connections from Kolkata, Nagpur, Delhi, and other major cities.
Day 0: Plan to reach Raipur one day before your pick-up if your train or flight. This will give you a good night's rest before the long drive to Turripani.
Day 1 : You will be picked up from Raipur Railway Station at 6 am. Transport on Day 4 for your return journey to Raipur as well. So the total cost of transportation from Raipur to Raipur is approximately Rs. 4400 per person.
Day 2: Trek from Turripani to Tadiyaban.
Day 3 : Trek from Tadiyaban to Pandupura.
Day 4 : Trek from Pandopara to Singhor Roadhead and drive back to Raipur. We recommend that you stay at Raipur overnight and book your return journey for the next day.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
There are many hotels near the Raipur Railway Station that you can choose from based on your preferences. However, we would recommend booking at the following hotels that offer decent, reliable services at affordable tariff:
1) Hotel Trimurti Inn
2) Hotel Aarya Inn
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek
toggle accordion
Most of the treks we run in the Himalayas come with a structured Fitness Approval Process. Trekkers are required to train in advance and submit screenshots of their walks and runs to receive approval.
However, our Central Indian treks are significantly easier. They do not require a formal Fitness Approval Process. You can join without submitting screenshots of your walks or runs to us.
That said, it’s always a good idea to prepare before any trek.
This is because even on Central Indian Treks, your lungs and legs work harder than in your regular everyday life. It’s better that you warm your body up to this challenge instead of coming on the trek without preparation.
How do you know if your preparation is on track?
Given below is a fitness criterion we have put together specifically for this trek. If you're able to meet it, you can be assured that you're fit enough to complete this trek comfortably.
Fitness Target
Walk, jog, or run 5 km in under 60 minutes. You don’t need to submit these screenshots to us. Our Central Indian Treks don’t have a Fitness Approval Process. However, this is a recommended fitness level you can aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you.
This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades. They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How long is the Chhattisgarh Jungle trek? expand accordion
The Chhattisgarh Jungle trek is inside the virgin jungles of the Guru Ghasidas National Park. The trek is almost 23 kilometres long and is done over 4 days.
Can anyone do the trek on their own? expand accordion
No. The Chhattisgarh Jungle trek is conducted in collaboration with the Forest and Tourism Departments of Chhattisgarh. At present, you can only do the trek with Indiahikes and you will be accompanied by forest guards throughout.
Is Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek Safe? expand accordion
Yes, the Indiahikes Chhattisgarh Jungle trek is safe. Last year 300 of our trekkers safely completed this trek. You are accompanied by a forest official for additional safety at all times. Naxalites do not operate anywhere near this forest. You can refer to this video for more information.
How is the weather in the summer on the Chhattisgarh Jungle trek? expand accordion
The jungles of Central India tend to get very hot in the summer months. This is why at Indiahikes, we conduct the trek only between November and January because this is the most pleasant time to experience the jungles of Chhattisgarh.
How to prepare and follow a fitness schedule for Senior Trekkers? expand accordion
We have specially designed a fitness schedule that can be followed irrespective of age.
By the time your trek starts, you should be able to walk/jog/run 5 km within 60 minutes comfortably. Ideally, closer to 50 minutes.
Follow the 6-week schedule in the 'How to get fit' section.
Can I take a bath on the trek? expand accordion
No, you cannot take a bath on the trek. However, we understand that you give a lot of importance to personal hygiene. Especially while trekking in groups. Here is one video that you can watch to learn how to take a mini-bath!
Will I have access to clean drinking water? expand accordion
Clean drinking water will be available at each of the campsites. We recommend carrying 2 litres of water at the start of each day.
I am Jain. Can you cook food separately for me? expand accordion
Yes, we can. Please inform your designated experience coordinator of any special requests in advance. We have the facility to provide you with special food. We also cater to any food allergies that you might have.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack. It'll cost you Rs 600 for the trek without GST. You can reach out to the Experience Coordinator once you have the registration done.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Can I keep my extra luggage at the basecamp? expand accordion
Yes. We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp in Turripani for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
(The luggage could be a backpack / suitcase / duffel bag or anything similar.).
What is the recommended maximum weight of the bag we should carry? expand accordion
The maximum recommended weight of the bag will be 6 to 7 Kilos with two filled water bottles.
Are sun caps, sunscreen and trekking poles compulsory? expand accordion
Yes, items mentioned in the packing list like sun caps, sunscreen, trek poles, high/mid ankle trek shoes, dry fit pants, and t-shirts are mandatory. If you do not want to buy them, you can rent them out at our rental store here.
How do I reach the basecamp? expand accordion
To reach the base of the Chhattisgarh Jungle trek, take any flight or train to Raipur. The pickup vehicles will pick you up from the Raipur Station at 6 AM on Day 1 of your trek and take you all the way to Turripani, the first campsite of our Chhattisgarh Jungle Trek. The total cost for the round trip (Raipur to Raipur) is approximately INR 4400 per person.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.