Everest Base Camp Trek 2026 | Nepal’s Iconic Classic Route Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Travel Guide
Everest Base Camp (Classic Route)
The Ultimate Trek to the Base of the Highest Mountain in the World
We are currently not running this trek. Instead, we recommend the Khopra Ridge Trek View the Khopra Ridge Trek
The Ultimate Trek to the Base of the Highest Mountain in the World
The Everest Base Camp classic route isn't merely another trail stitched onto a map; it's practically a legend amongst trekkers, with tones of awe and accomplishment.
This route, towards the base of the world's highest mountain, Mount Everest, is a coveted prize on almost every trekker’s bucket list. It's more than just a scenic trek through the Himalayas; it's a transformative experience that will push your physical and mental limits further than you can ever imagine. The sense of accomplishment that washes over you as you stand at Everest Base Camp, humbled by the sheer magnanimity of the mountain, is unparalleled.
This legendary trail, however, is a difficult one. It's a demanding trek that will test your willpower and require meticulous preparation. The path meanders through an elevation gain of over 18,000 feet, taking you from the bustling town of Lukla that is nestled in the valleys to the base of Mount Everest.
Read more
expand overview
This legendary trail, however, is a difficult one. It's a demanding trek that will test your willpower and require meticulous preparation. The path meanders through an elevation gain of over 18,000 feet, taking you from the bustling town of Lukla that is nestled in the valleys to the base of Mount Everest.
The terrain you'll encounter throughout this journey is as diverse as it is challenging. Beautiful green forests give way to stark, rocky valleys etched with glacial blankets. You'll traverse suspension bridges, navigate through sections with loose earth, and even cross the edge of the mighty Khumbu Glacier, all while constantly battling the effects of a steep altitude. Be warned, some sections of this trek are notoriously tricky, demanding a good level of fitness, surefootedness, and a huge dose of determination.
But for those who are prepared, the rewards are beyond imagination.
Everest Base Camp Trek – Non-Indian Citizens (Cost Breakdown)
Round-trip flight charges: ₹25,000 + 5% GST = ₹26,250
Additional trek permit charges: ₹2,000 + 5% GST = ₹2,100
Total additional amount payable (For Non-Indian Citizens only): ₹27,000 +5% GST = ₹28,350
Disclaimer: Applicable only to non-Indian citizens as per the Nepal Government Regulation
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
Flight to Lukla
We'll arrange your flights to and from Lukla.
Accommodation
Stay is included from Day 1 night at Kathmandu to Day 14 at Lukla. You will be staying in tea houses on all days of the trek.
Food on the Trek
All food you eat on the trek from Breakfast on Day 2 to Breakfast on Day 15 is included in your trek fee.
It's important to note that there's a very specific and strict eating culture here. If you're staying at Homestay A, you're only allowed to have your meals there. You cannot go elsewhere and have them. Providing meals is their primary source of income. Not following this rule will result in a significant additional charge for your stay.
All trek permits and guide charges are included
All trek permits (including the Sagarmatha National Park entry permits) and 2 guides per group are included in the trek fee.
Trek Equipment
High-quality sleeping bags are included in your trek fee. Technical equipment like ice axes, ropes, microspikes, gaiters etc. are also provided as and when required.
Safety Equipment
The Indiahikes team carries an extensive high-altitude medical kit, including supplemental oxygen for emergencies. Use of this is included in your trek fee.
Trek Exclusions
Food on Transit
Please keep in mind that all food you eat during your travel to Kathmandu before lunch on Day 1 and during your return after breakfast on Day 15 is at your own expense.
Water on the Trek or Transit
You will have access to drinking water at the tea houses where you stay. However, if you are buying drinking water, then the charges are extra. This is not included in your trek fee.
Note: A water purifying bottle is highly recommended when going on this trek.
Trek Insurance
For international treks, the insurance fee is not included in the trek cost. However, we highly recommend getting insurance. At Indiahikes, we trust ASC360 and recommend applying through them. Click here to know more .
Offloading
This will cost you Rs 12,000 pre-tax for the entire trek duration. You will need to inform us two weeks in advance if you wish to offload your backpack. The offloaded bag should not weigh more than 9 kg. Trolleys, duffel bags, suitcases etc. are not allowed. Offline offloading is not possible on this trek.
Evacuation Charges
Any evacuation on trek or during transit is not included in the trek fee. The helicopter evacuation costs anywhere between 500 to 700 USD. That is why we recommend taking an insurance.
Phone Charging at Tea houses
Tea houses allow you the use electric charging points at an additional cost.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
Indiahikes shall not be held responsible for any flight delays or cancellations. Flight recommendations provided by Indiahikes are for reference only, and trekkers are advised to verify schedules and make necessary arrangements independently.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the base camp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork. I may seek guidance from Indiahikes regarding the process; however, Indiahikes shall not be held liable if I am unable to obtain the required documents.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Everest Base Camp (Classic Route) - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a high altitude trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Everest Base Camp trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Reach Kathmandu
There are direct flights from major cities like New Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai to Kathmandu (Tribhuvan International Airport-KTM). While cities like Bangalore and Lucknow have connecting flights.
Important note: Reach Kathmandu one day before Day 1 because your drive to Ramechhap starts at 1 AM from Kathmandu the next day. This extra day will give you much needed rest.
Day 2
Drive to Ramechhap. Fly to Lukla.
Drive Duration: 6 hrs | Flight Duration: 20-25 mins
Drive to Ramechhap from Kathmandu starts at 1 AM (IST)
This transfer and airfare is included in your trek fee.
Day 3
Trek from Lukla to Phakding.
Trek Distance: 9 km | Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude Loss: 9,300 ft to 8,600 ft
Easy. Gradual descent throughout. You can refill your water bottles at tea houses on the way.
Day 4
Trek from Phakding to Namche Bazaar.
Trek Distance: 10 km | Duration: 7 hours | Altitude Gain: 8,600 ft to 11,290 ft
Moderate. Initial level walk for 30 minutes followed by an undulating trail for a few hours. Steep climb to Namche hereafter. You can refill your water bottles at tea houses on the way.
Day 5
Acclimatization day at Namche Bazaar
Today, you’ll do an acclimatisation climb to Everest View Hotel and come back down to Namche Bazaar for lunch.
Day 6
Trek from Namche Bazaar to Tengboche.
Trek Distance: 9.2 kms | Duration: 4 hours | Altitude Gain: 11,290 ft to 12,687 ft (+ 1397 ft)
Day 7
Trek from Tengboche to Dingboche.
Trek Distance: 10.8 kms | Duration: 3.5 hours | Altitude Gain: 12,687 ft to 14,469 ft (+ 1782 ft)
Day 8
Acclimatization day at Dingboche.
Day 9
Trek from Dingboche to Lobuche.
Trek Distance: 11.1 kms | Duration: 7 hours | Altitude Gain: 14,469 ft to 16,200 ft (+ 1731 ft)
Day 10
Trek from Labouche to Gorakshep (Excursion to EBC)
Trek Distance: 8 kms | Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Gain: 16,200 ft to 16,900 ft (+ 700 ft)
Moderate. Short, steep ascent followed by 1.5-2 hours of boulder walk. Ends with a gradually ascending trail. Carry sufficient water. You’ll find teahouses on the way to Gorakshep.
Day 11
Climb Kala Pathar. Trek from Gorakshep to Pheriche
Trek Distance: 15.2 kms | Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 16,900 ft to 14,070 ft via 18,200 ft
Difficult. Gradual descent all the way to Pheriche. Carry sufficient water; you can refill your water bottles at tea houses on the way.
Day 12
Trek from Pheriche to Tengboche.
Trek Distance: 9 kms | Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude Loss: 14,070 ft to 12,665 ft
Moderate. 3 km gradual ascent to Tengboche. You can refill your water bottles at tea houses on the way.
Day 13
Trek from Tengboche to Namche Bazaar.
Trek Distance: 9.2 kms | Duration: 4 hours | Altitude Loss: 12,665 ft to 11,290 ft
Moderate. Continuous descent followed by a final, short stretch of steep ascent. You can refill your water bottles at tea houses on the way.
Day 14
Trek from Namche Bazaar to Lukla.
Trek Distance: 19 kms | Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude Loss: 11,290 ft to 9,300 ft
Moderate. Continuous descent to Phakding for a few hours followed by gradual ascent to Lukla. You will find tea houses on the way to refill your water bottles.
Stay the night at Hotel Comfort Inn.
Day 15
Lukla to Kathmandu via Ramechhap
Take a flight from Lukla to Ramechhap and drive back to Kathmandu. The cost of this transfer is included in your Trek Fee.
Important Advisory:
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Trekking, by nature, is subject to last-minute uncertainty. Book flexible flight tickets so that you don't lose out on your flight charges in case of cancellations/rescheduling.
➤ Currency Exchange: For conversion, carry US-Dollars or INR 100-200 notes only. Currency notes for denominations of INR 500 and above are banned in Nepal. If you are converting currency in Kathmandu itself, Thamel and Buddha Stupa areas have much better conversion dates than the rates offered at Kathmandu airport. Just convert a small amount, if needed, to get around at the airport.
➤ Buffer days: It is recommended to keep a buffer of at least 3 days. Weather can be extremely unpredictable in Nepal. Airports close down at the slightest weather disturbance. This might cause major delays at the start of your trek.
➤ Documents required: It is mandatory for trekkers to carry a copy of their ID Card for entry at forest check posts on the trek.
➤ Stay facility: At Lukla, your stay will be arranged in lodges. On the trek, you will be staying at tea houses
➤ Cloakroom facility for excess luggage: We have a cloakroom facility at Lukla. No valuables can be kept. Also, do not carry any excess luggage on the trek.
➤ Insurance: Insurance is not included in the trek fee. If you want to avail insurance for this trek, you can write an email to your Experience Coordinator and apply for insurance.
➤ Food and Water on Trek: Any food you have during your trek or during the travel is included in the trek fee. You will have access to drinking water at the tea houses where you stay. You can fill your bottles here. However, if you are buying additional drinking water, then the charges are extra. This is not included in your trek fee. A filtered water bottle/water filtration tablets are highly recommended when going on this trek.
How does each day look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Day 9
Day 10
Day 11
Day 12
Day 13
Day 14
Day 15
Previous
Next
Day 1: Reach Kathmandu.
There are direct flights from major cities like New Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai to Kathmandu (Tribhuvan International Airport-KTM). While cities like Bangalore and Lucknow have connecting flights. You'll meet the Indiahikes Team here. Once you register, your Experience Co-Ordinator will inform you about the meeting time and place well in advance.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
There are direct flights from major cities like New Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai to Kathmandu (Tribhuvan International Airport-KTM). While cities like Bangalore and Lucknow have connecting flights. You'll meet the Indiahikes Team here. Once you register, your Experience Co-Ordinator will inform you about the meeting time and place well in advance.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Drive to Ramechhap. Fly to Lukla.
The bulk of the flights to Lukla now fly from Ramechhap instead of Kathmandu. While some flights still fly from Kathmandu in the off-season, they might not be available in the peak trekking seasons.
So we will drive 150 km to Ramechhap. It is a 6-7-hour drive from Kathmandu. We'll fly to Lukla from Ramechhap. This transfer and airfare is included in your trek fee.
Read More
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
The bulk of the flights to Lukla now fly from Ramechhap instead of Kathmandu. While some flights still fly from Kathmandu in the off-season, they might not be available in the peak trekking seasons.
So we will drive 150 km to Ramechhap. It is a 6-7-hour drive from Kathmandu. We'll fly to Lukla from Ramechhap. This transfer and airfare is included in your trek fee.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek from Lukla to Phakding
Lukla is a tiny village with an airstrip at the end of the valley. This airport is called the most dangerous airport in the world for its short runway and the drop off at the end. Landing and taking off in Lukla is an adrenaline-pumping experience. A simple thing like a cloud covering a mountain ridge can shut this airport down! Hence, we recommend that you reach Lukla a day in advance.
The trek begins right outside the airport. The trail to Phakding is mostly descending. After a small forest trail, in the beginning, you will walk through Nepalese villages surrounded by a lot of vegetation.
Read More
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Lukla is a tiny village with an airstrip at the end of the valley. This airport is called the most dangerous airport in the world for its short runway and the drop off at the end. Landing and taking off in Lukla is an adrenaline-pumping experience. A simple thing like a cloud covering a mountain ridge can shut this airport down! Hence, we recommend that you reach Lukla a day in advance.
The trek begins right outside the airport. The trail to Phakding is mostly descending. After a small forest trail, in the beginning, you will walk through Nepalese villages surrounded by a lot of vegetation.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Trek from Phakding to Namche Bazaar
Namche, where you’ll be headed today, is the capital of the Khumbu region. Start your day early as there is a long day of trekking in the store. The trail goes up and down as you gradually gain altitude. You will mostly be trekking through forests.
Monjo village is the midpoint of today’s trek. There is a 3-4 km steep climb through forests just before the Swiss suspension bridge over the Dudh Kosi river, which is the lifeline of the Khumbu region.
Highlights of the day include entering the Sagarmatha National park, spotting the Kongderei and Thamserku peaks, and getting your first Everest viewpoint.
Read More
Namche, where you’ll be headed today, is the capital of the Khumbu region. Start your day early as there is a long day of trekking in the store. The trail goes up and down as you gradually gain altitude. You will mostly be trekking through forests.
Monjo village is the midpoint of today’s trek. There is a 3-4 km steep climb through forests just before the Swiss suspension bridge over the Dudh Kosi river, which is the lifeline of the Khumbu region.
Highlights of the day include entering the Sagarmatha National park, spotting the Kongderei and Thamserku peaks, and getting your first Everest viewpoint.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Acclimatisation Day at Namche Bazaar
Today, you’ll do an acclimatisation climb to Everest View Hotel and come back down to Namche for lunch.
Namche Bazaar, which is a pitstop for trekkers and climbers going to Everest Base Camp, is worth exploring. You can shop here for souvenirs or even trek gear.
You can also hike to the Sherpa Cultural Museum from where you get great views of Everest and Ama Dablam. The museum details the history of the region with a peek into the lives of Sherpas. You will see photographs from Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay’s climb as well as maps detailing all hiking trails in Nepal.
Read More
Today, you’ll do an acclimatisation climb to Everest View Hotel and come back down to Namche for lunch.
Namche Bazaar, which is a pitstop for trekkers and climbers going to Everest Base Camp, is worth exploring. You can shop here for souvenirs or even trek gear.
You can also hike to the Sherpa Cultural Museum from where you get great views of Everest and Ama Dablam. The museum details the history of the region with a peek into the lives of Sherpas. You will see photographs from Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay’s climb as well as maps detailing all hiking trails in Nepal.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Trek from Namche Bazaar to Tengboche
As soon as you reach the outskirts of Namche, you'll enter a forest section, which lasts for only about a kilometre.
After the forest section, you will come to a ledge walk. If you are lucky, you may even get a glimpse of the Everest! This is a 40-minute gradual ascent on the ledge, with the Doodhkoshi River accompanying you all the way. This ledge walk has pockets of forests, with a few Buddhist stupas on the way.
This will further lead you to Kyanjuma, where there are a few tea houses. After this, there is a diversion to the Gokyo Ri route.
Read More
As soon as you reach the outskirts of Namche, you'll enter a forest section, which lasts for only about a kilometre.
After the forest section, you will come to a ledge walk. If you are lucky, you may even get a glimpse of the Everest! This is a 40-minute gradual ascent on the ledge, with the Doodhkoshi River accompanying you all the way. This ledge walk has pockets of forests, with a few Buddhist stupas on the way.
This will further lead you to Kyanjuma, where there are a few tea houses. After this, there is a diversion to the Gokyo Ri route.
A while after this, you will cross the Doodhkoshi River on a small suspension bridge and enter a tiny village called Phukithanga.
Phukithanga to Tengboche is a trek of almost 2.5 hours.
Tengboche is a village with great spiritual and religious importance for Buddhists. Many people, throughout the year, traverse this difficult trail just to visit the monastery and seek blessings. So please be respectful and maintain the sanctity of the area.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Trek from Tengboche to Dingboche
This day will be slightly longer.
As we start from Tengboche, we first descend. It is a gradual descent, with rhododendron forests forming a dense canopy.
Around 2 kilometres from Tengboche is Deboche. From here onwards until a point, you will walk on flat ground. After which there is a steep descent to the huge Imja River suspension bridge.
Read More
This day will be slightly longer.
As we start from Tengboche, we first descend. It is a gradual descent, with rhododendron forests forming a dense canopy.
Around 2 kilometres from Tengboche is Deboche. From here onwards until a point, you will walk on flat ground. After which there is a steep descent to the huge Imja River suspension bridge.
Tip: Keep your eyes peeled for the very first glimpse of the Ama Dablam peak just before this suspension bridge.
As you cross this bridge, immediately you will start ascending. This is the point where you are almost out of the tree line for the rest of the trek. Here, you will be on a ledge with a few Buddhist stupas on the way, with Mount Ama Dablam as a backdrop.
From here, you will have entered the alpine region. This means mountain peaks emerge on all sides of the trail, it becomes barren and gets a lot steeper. Eventually, you will also start feeling the altitude hitting.
In between you will cross Pangboche. This is the diversion point for the Ama Dablam base camp trek.
Keep ascending and a while later you will come across two trails. One going to Pheriche and the other going to Dingboche. You need to take the one going to Dingboche.
Continue on this trail; a while after this you will have to cross the Lobuche stream. From here, you will see the bustling town of Dingboche.
Note: Lobuche is the name of the river before Dingboche. But further on the trail, there is also a small town called Lobuche.
Dingboche is the next 'happening' town after Namche. You will have to give one day for acclimatisation here.
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Acclimatization day at Dingboche
Dingboche, as mentioned, is the next 'happening' town after Namche.
Here, there is a ridge walk called Nangkartshang, with an elevation gain of almost 1000 ft from Dingboche.
Pro Tip: Get a good elevation gain. This will help you acclimatise better, as well as get good views and experiences from a not-so-known place.
Read More
Dingboche, as mentioned, is the next 'happening' town after Namche.
Here, there is a ridge walk called Nangkartshang, with an elevation gain of almost 1000 ft from Dingboche.
Pro Tip: Get a good elevation gain. This will help you acclimatise better, as well as get good views and experiences from a not-so-known place.
Come back from this hike and get a good rest. This will help you in acclimatisation.
go to previous day Day 7 Day 9 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 9: Trek from Dingboche to Lobuche
Day 8 is comparatively the most pleasant day throughout the trek. This is because the elevation gain on this day is less.
Yet, do not forget that Day 8 starts at an altitude of 14,200 ft from Dingboche. This means that you will be very prone to any kind of mountain sickness.
Pro Tip: Carry Diamox tablets for this trek, without fail.
Read More
Day 8 is comparatively the most pleasant day throughout the trek. This is because the elevation gain on this day is less.
Yet, do not forget that Day 8 starts at an altitude of 14,200 ft from Dingboche. This means that you will be very prone to any kind of mountain sickness.
Pro Tip: Carry Diamox tablets for this trek, without fail.
The initial part of the trail on Day 8 is a ridge walk of around 1.5 hours. You will be walking in between very high but beautiful mountain peaks such as Taboche, Jobo Lhaptshang, and glimpses of Ama Dablam too.
After an initial descent from the ridge, there is a steep, zig-zag ascent called the Thukla Pass.
Tip: After you have ascended and have reached the topmost point of the pass, just turn around. You will get to see a very beautiful view of where you would have trekked from.
Note: Right after you cross the Thukla Pass, there is a graveyard. It is an old one of those who died (many years ago) on the way to Everest. Pay your respects and move ahead.
After this, there is a very gradual descent to the riverside. If the river is frozen, you can experience walking on it for at least a kilometre.
After crossing the stream, there is a gradual descent to Lobuche.
Again, Lobuche is very notorious for getting hit by AMS (acute mountain sickness). It is very important to carry Diamox and other required medications.
Pro Tip: In case you are travelling alone and require assistance, ask tea house owners for help.
Note: The weather in Lobuche is very unpredictable. Keep a note of any changes in weather conditions and plan accordingly.
go to previous day Day 8 Day 10 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 10: Trek from Labouche to Gorakshep (Excursion to EBC)
It takes about 3 hours to reach Gorakshep, which is a very busy place. You’ll see the terrain change as you approach the place. There are a lot of trekkers coming in. You’ll see Everest Base Camp on the trail to Gorakshep.
After early lunch at Gorakshep, set off for EBC. Make sure you carry your day pack since you’ll need water. The climb is fairly moderate, though the moraines are slippery and the ridge bordering Khumbu glacier is very windy.
Everest Base Camp provides a very unique experience since you’ll see potential summiters. The climbers’ tents look striking against the backdrop.
Read More
It takes about 3 hours to reach Gorakshep, which is a very busy place. You’ll see the terrain change as you approach the place. There are a lot of trekkers coming in. You’ll see Everest Base Camp on the trail to Gorakshep.
After early lunch at Gorakshep, set off for EBC. Make sure you carry your day pack since you’ll need water. The climb is fairly moderate, though the moraines are slippery and the ridge bordering Khumbu glacier is very windy.
Everest Base Camp provides a very unique experience since you’ll see potential summiters. The climbers’ tents look striking against the backdrop.
Please note: drinking water at Gorakshep is chargeable. 1 litre of drinking water costs 350 Nepalese rupees. This is not included in the trek fee. Non-potable water is available free of cost – if you’re carrying a water purifying bottle, you could consider using that instead.
go to previous day Day 9 Day 11 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 11: Climb Kala Pathar. Trek from Gorakshep to Pheriche.
Start early for Kala Patthar so that you reach in time to watch the sun rising over the peaks. Kala Patthar is the highest point of the trek.
The trail to Kala Patthar is well defined and will take you 2-2.5 hours to reach. The last section is steep.
From the summit, you’ll get great views of Everest, South Col – the traditional route to Everest summit. You will even be able to identify Hillary's steps.
Read More
Start early for Kala Patthar so that you reach in time to watch the sun rising over the peaks. Kala Patthar is the highest point of the trek.
The trail to Kala Patthar is well defined and will take you 2-2.5 hours to reach. The last section is steep.
From the summit, you’ll get great views of Everest, South Col – the traditional route to Everest summit. You will even be able to identify Hillary's steps.
There are great views of Lhotse, Makalu, the Khumbu glacier and icefall, and of the entire Everest Base camp. Pumori is straight ahead from the summit.
After spending some time at Kala Pathar, return to Gorakshep and start for Pheriche immediately after breakfast. Retrace the route back to Labouche, from where it’s another 3 hours to Pheriche.
You’ll cross Dughla/Thukla where there are memorials of mountaineers who died climbing Everest.
Pheriche is a village situated above the Tsola river. It is extremely picturesque and surrounded by mountains. There is a hospital in Pheriche, which was specially set up for the benefit of trekkers, and is currently run by the Himalayan Rescue Association with the help of volunteers from all over the world.
The Ama Dablam Base Camp is 4 hours from here.
go to previous day Day 10 Day 12 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 12: Trek from Pheriche to Tengboche
This is the traditional Everest Highway. You’ll meet a lot of trekkers from around the world while walking on this trail.
The trail to Tengboche descends continuously from Pheriche.
Stop for the day at Tengboche. Visit the campus Monastery here. Don’t be surprised if you come across renowned mountaineers here.
Read More
This is the traditional Everest Highway. You’ll meet a lot of trekkers from around the world while walking on this trail.
The trail to Tengboche descends continuously from Pheriche.
Stop for the day at Tengboche. Visit the campus Monastery here. Don’t be surprised if you come across renowned mountaineers here.
Tengboche has great views of the Everest, Nuptse, Lhotse and Ama Dablam.
go to previous day Day 11 Day 13 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 13: Trek from Tengboche to Namche Bazaar
You are back to walking along Dudh Kosi. From Tengboche, there is a steep descent to Phunki Thanga where you’ll have lunch.
You’ll see prayer wheels connected to a water turbine on the way. The water turbine ensures the wheels move clockwise. The climb from here to Namche is steep.
Read More
go to previous day Day 12 Day 14 go to next day
You are back to walking along Dudh Kosi. From Tengboche, there is a steep descent to Phunki Thanga where you’ll have lunch.
You’ll see prayer wheels connected to a water turbine on the way. The water turbine ensures the wheels move clockwise. The climb from here to Namche is steep.
go to previous day Day 12 Day 14 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 14: Trek from Namche Bazaar to Lukla
Descend to Lukla on the same trail that you used to go up. Stop at Phakding for lunch.
Stay overnight at Lukla. Take the early morning flight out of Lukla. It will take you about 45 minutes to reach Kathmandu.
Read More
go to previous day Day 13 Day 15 go to next day
Descend to Lukla on the same trail that you used to go up. Stop at Phakding for lunch.
Stay overnight at Lukla. Take the early morning flight out of Lukla. It will take you about 45 minutes to reach Kathmandu.
go to previous day Day 13 Day 15 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 15: Lukla to Kathmandu
Take the early morning flight out of Lukla. It will take you about 45 mins to reach Kathmandu. Depart from Kathmandu.
Read More
go to previous day Day 14
Take the early morning flight out of Lukla. It will take you about 45 mins to reach Kathmandu. Depart from Kathmandu.
go to previous day Day 14
How difficult is the Everest Base Camp Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult Trek
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 110.5 km in ten trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 8,900 ft (9,300 ft to 18,200 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections on steep, uneven trails. Most days involve trekking for long hours.
Terrain:
You trek for more than 100 km over 12 days straight, climbing from 8600 ft to a whooping 18,200 ft at Kalapathar. These long distances and high altitudes make Everest Base Camp a difficult trek, suitable only for experienced trekkers.
The climb to Namche Bazaar is steep. You need to negotiate a 600-meter ascent over 2 km just before reaching Namche Bazaar. This climb can be challenging, especially in rainy or snowy conditions, making the trail slippery.
From Namche Bazaar, the trail drops steeply to Phunki Thanga before climbing sharply to Tengboche (12,687 ft). While the ascent is undeniably tough, the descent isn’t any easier—its uneven terrain can be punishing on your knees. Adding to the challenge, you navigate this section at a high altitude of over 10,000 ft, making every step more demanding.
The steep ascent from Dingboche (14,340 ft) to Lobuche (16,210 ft) is one of the most challenging sections of the trek. You trek through boulder fields and glacial moraines, experiencing strong winds along the Khumbu Glacier ridge.
The trek to Kala Patthar (18,200 ft) is the journey's highest point. This steep climb is typically done in the early morning, where cold temperatures and possible verglas on the trail add to the challenge.
The final leg of the trek from Gorakshep (16,942 ft) to Everest Base Camp (17,598 ft) is demanding, with steep ascents and long boulder walks through glacial moraine.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
If you are trekking in Spring, snowfall is very likely at the higher altitudes, particularly at Kala Patthar and Lobuche, making navigation difficult.
Rainfall at the lower elevations like Namche Bazaar and Tengboche, can lead to muddy and slippery trails.
The Khumbu Glacier ridge and Kala Patthar are known for strong winds. Layer up well to tackle the wind chill.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
On the second day of your trek, you gain close to 3000 ft in elevation from Phakding to Namche Bazar. This makes you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
The Everest Base Camp Trek takes you to very high altitudes. At the Kala Patthar summit, you stand more than 18,000 ft above sea level. Even with acclimatization stops at Namche Bazaar and Dingboche, Acute Mountain Sickness remains a real risk.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The fastest evacuation route is by helicopter from Gorak Shep or Pheriche, depending on the severity of the emergency. But, if you are not equipped with an adequate Trek Insurance, this can burn a hole in your pocket. Helicopter evacuations also depend on weather and availability.
The nearest hospitals are in Lukla and Kathmandu. Basic medical aid is available at lower-altitude villages like Namche Bazaar.
Closest Hospital to the Everest Base Camp Trek:
If you need immediate attention, there are a few primary health centres in Namche Bazaar. In case of an emergency, you must head down to Lukla as quickly as possible.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
How to Get Fit for the Everest Base Camp Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Everest Base Camp Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Everest Base Camp Trek (classic route) comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Everest Base Camp Trek (classic route) Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Best time to do the Everest Base Camp Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
There are two distinct seasons for the Everest Base Camp (classic route) trek – April (Spring) and October (Autumn) and the weather is very different in these seasons.
Say, in Spring, although you will find patches of hard snow at higher altitudes, the temperature during the day will be slightly warmer than that in Autumn when there won’t be any snow on the trek.
Even the air is different. While Spring is moist, Autumn is dry and crisp.
Everest Base Camp (classic route) in Spring (April)
Day time: Between 18 °C and 24 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 5 °C and 0 °C.
Presence of snow: You may find snow patches on the trail.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
It’s that time of the year when winter has totally left the slopes. But, you will still find snow patches on the ground above 12,000 feet.
In Spring, expect pleasant daytime temperatures around 18 °C. But at night it dips to almost zero levels.
During the day if the sun goes behind the clouds and there is about of rain, then the temperature can fall to around 12 °C.
Everest Base Camp (classic route) in Autumn (October)
Day time: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between -5 °C and -10 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow at this time of the year.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
Autumn is slightly like winter. Colder than Summer, although you won’t find patches of snow.
Nights in Autumn get chilly. In October the temperature dips to -5 ° C.
During the day, you will experience temperatures around 12 ° C. But any rain or slight drizzle brings down the temperature by a few degrees. So keep a jacket handy with you always.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
Fly to Kathmandu and then fly to Lukla via Ramechhap
You will drive from Kathmandu to Ramechhap. It is a four hour long journey to Ramechhap. From Ramechhap a 20 min flight will take you to Lukla. We'll arrange this for you.
Planning your hotel/stay
While booking hotels on your return, always assume book your rooms assuming the buffer day is not being used. Assume the trek is going to run without any hiccups. So what happens if you use your buffer day on the trek? Unfortunately, then you’ll probably lose your hotel booking.
So book hotels where you may not have to transfer money in advance. Even if you do, consider it better than missing out on the trek. In Kathmandu, it is not difficult to find last minute hotel bookings if in case the buffer day is used.
Hotel options in Kathmandu
➤ Alobar1000
Alobar1000 is one of the many youth hostels in Kathmandu. It has a good backpacking dorm and also private rooms.
Email id: [email protected]
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/KjsbNoKqK5ALNh2t8
Contact Number: +977-14410114
Website: https://alobar1000.wixsite.com/alobar1000
➤ Zostel Kathmandu
Zostel has standardised rooms and dorms all around the region. It’s a reliable place with basic facilities.
Email id: [email protected]
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/aTMpF8Sz5btnjPny9
Contact Number: +977- 9813495707
Website: https://www.zostel.com/zostel/kathmandu/
➤ Wander Thirst
This is another hostel in Kathmandu which has a mix of hostels with dorms and private rooms.
Email id: [email protected]
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/aTMpF8Sz5btnjPny9
Website: https://wanderthirsthostels.com/
Important Points to Note
- In Kathmandu, the cost of the dorm room per bed is usually priced at around NPR 350-500. For a private room with a shared bathroom, it will cost around NPR 1000-1500.
– Kathmandu again has a wide range of hotels and places to stay. Book your stay close to Thamel which has better access to local food, trekking gears and a nice culture of trekking.
– From Kathmandu airport, if you take a cab to anywhere around a 2 km to 2.5 km radius, it will cost around NPR 600. Airport to Thamel will cost you NPR 700.
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Is trekking to Everest Base Camp dangerous? expand accordion
Trekking to Everest Base Camp is not dangerous, provided you prepare well for it.
We classify Everest Base Camp (classic route) as a Difficult trek. This means it requires exceptionally high fitness levels and prior Himalayan trek experience is a must as well.
There are quite a few factors contributing to the difficulty of the trek — the distance covered every day, the duration of the trek, the terrain, the time spent at a very high altitude (7 days above 14,000 ft) and a difficult exit from the trail in case of an emergency.
One of the greatest risks on any high altitude trek is complications arising from AMS, HAPE and HACE. All three of them can be prevented with adequate hydration, well planned itinerary and proper acclimatization. The Indiahikes trek team, led by an experienced trek leader, is equipped to take care of all medical emergencies on the trail.
These measures make sure every participant on an Indiahikes trek is safe during the Everest Base Camp (classic route) trek.
Can you see Everest from base camp? expand accordion
Mt. Everest is not visible from the Everest Base Camp due to other mountains obscuring it from view. You can spot other mountains like Khumbutse, Changtse, Lingtren, Lobuche, Kala Patthar and Pumori from EBC.
However, Mt. Everest can be spotted multiple times from the trail itself during the initial part of the trek.
Is there an option to offload my backpack on this trek? expand accordion
Yes, there is an option to offload your backpack. This will cost you INR 12,000 pre-tax for entire trekking duration. You will need to inform us in advance if you wish to offload your backpack.
The offloaded bag should not weigh more than 9 kg. Trolleys, duffel bags, suitcases etc. are not allowed. Online offloading in advance is possible up to two weeks prior to the trek start date.
Offline offloading is not possible on this trek.
Will there be water sources on the way? Will two litres of water be enough? expand accordion
You will have access to drinking water at the tea houses where you stay. For your day’s trek, two litres of water should be enough.
On most days, you will be able to refill your water bottles at tea houses that we pass on the way.
Please note, you will need to buy drinking water once you reach Gorakshep till the time you descend from there on Day. 1 litre of drinking water costs 350 Nepalese rupees. This is not included in your trek fee.
Note: A filtered water bottle is highly recommended when going on this trek.
Is there a mobile network on this trek? Are there any electricity charging points on this trek? expand accordion
You will have mobile connectivity till Dole. You also have internet connectivity in tea houses at all locations except Labouche.
Tea houses allow you the use electric charging points at an additional cost, which can be quite high. You need to pay NPR 1,000 per charge and this can increase as you go to teahouses situated at higher altitudes.
All major Indian networks such as Airtel, Vodafone, Idea work on international roaming wherever there is mobile connectivity. Alternatively, you can even get a local SIM of N Cell or Nepal Telecom at Kathmandu/airport.
Can I keep extra luggage at Lukla and collect it from there after the trek? expand accordion
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, we will arrange for a cloakroom where trekkers can keep their luggage.
There are no charges for this.
Please do not leave any valuables behind in the cloakroom.
Note: You are only allowed to carry 15 kg luggage on the flight from Kathmandu to Lukla and return.
What is the cancellation policy for the Everest Base Camp Trek? expand accordion
For details on cancellation policy for international treks, click here .
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.