Gurez Valley Trek 2026 | Kashmir’s Remotest Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Gurez Valley Trek
A spectacular trek in the northernmost part of Kashmir
We have called off this trek for 2026. Consider the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek instead.
With grand meadows and a dramatic crossover to Spiti, we rank Pin Bhaba among our Top 3 Treks of All Time. View the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
A spectacular trek in the northernmost part of Kashmir
India ends at Gurez. The significance of this is enormous. If you look at our country as a whole, we travel upwards from Kanyakumari. There comes the point where we cannot travel any further north. That part of our country is Gurez.
The significance is that the Gurez is the last latitude of India, which is why it is very unlike any other part of Kashmir. The topography changes totally even though it is only 6 hours north of Srinagar. You will notice it in the trees especially. The trees are different, and so are the way they are laid out in the valley. The Razdan pass you cross to get to Gurez pushes you to a very different landscape. Just like how it is when you cross the Rohtang Pass in Manali. In fact, our trek in Gurez reminds us more of our treks in Kyrgyzstan and Georgia than they do of our treks in Kashmir -- so different is the landscape. We feel we are in a different locale even though we are in Kashmir.
Did you know Gurez Valley is a DIY trek? Read this article before booking your trek!
play video
The Gurez valley trek has astoundingly different forests, grasslands and two lovely lakes (and one we camp beside). The scenery is spectacularly unusual.
Read more
expand overview
The Gurez valley trek has astoundingly different forests, grasslands and two lovely lakes (and one we camp beside). The scenery is spectacularly unusual.
Note: This trek will be run in our Do-It-Yourself (DIY) style. Which means trekkers along with a trek leader are going to be doing the trek all without a support system. You will be helping in carrying a few of the gears and equipment as a team. So we expect your backpack to weigh about 12 kg per trekker.
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Gurez Valley : Take on the adventure of trekking to Gurez Valley, A spectacular trek in the northernmost part of Kashmir, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Local Homestay: Experience the rich culture of Kashmir by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Dawar on Day 1 to lunch at Dawar on Day 6 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base:
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Srinagar to Dawar costs Rs 6000 per vehicle, which is to be shared by trekkers availing the pick-up.
On Day 6, the drop-off directly to Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Srinagar from Dawar costs Rs 6,000.
All vehicles are non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Gurez Valley - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
A DIY trek, as the name suggests, is a Do-It-Yourself trek. You manage everything — you set up camp where you want to, you cook your own meals, you navigate the trail using GPS maps, and you trek at your own pace.
A Trek Leader from Indiahikes accompanies you on the trek. Their job is to look into your safety. They carry all emergency safety equipment, including life-saving drugs. If you find it challenging to navigate the trail, the Trek Leader steps in.
The Trek Leader is as much a part of the DIY trek as the others. It is true that the Trek Leader is in charge of the team, but their role is more consultative than authoritative.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this map to know this trek at a glance
Day 1
Drive from Srinagar to Dawar
Drive Distance: 141 km | Drive Duration: 6-7 hours | Pick-up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar | Pick-u time- 7 am.
The transport cost is Rs 6000 per vehicle and must be paid directly to the driver. The vehicle will be non-AC.
Please note: You arrive at Sheikh Feroze on Day 0 to collect rentals and submit cloakroom at 6 pm.
Day 2
Trek from Dawar to Dison
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude gain: 7,870 ft to 10,340 ft
Day 3
Trek from Dison to Khaari via Dawar heights
Trek Distance: 8 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude gain: 10,340 ft to 11,300 ft via 11,722 ft
Day 4
Trek from Khaari to Patalwansar I Lake via Patalwansar II
Trek Distance: 8 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude gain: 11,300 ft to 12,650 ft via 12,795 ft
Day 5
Trek from Patalwansar I to Dison
Trek Distance: 12 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Altitude loss: 12,650 ft to 10,340 ft
Day 6
Trek from Dison to Dawar. Drive to Srinagar
Trek Distance: 4.6 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours
Drive Distance: 141 km | Drive Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude loss: 10,340 ft to 5,220 ft
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on weather conditions and your route. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Day 7
Buffer Day
All your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability. This depends entirely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir. The buffer day is mandatory to keep in your itinerary.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs 1,800 per day +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
IMPORTANT POINTS
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
➤ Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
➤ DIY Style of Trekking: This trek will be run in our Do-It-Yourself (DIY) style. Which means trekkers, along with a trek leader, are going to be doing the trek all without a support system. Read this article before you book your trek.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up day) - Srinagar to Dawar (Gurez)
Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Drive Distance: 141 km
Altitude gain: 5,220 ft to 7,870 ft via 11,550 ft
Gurez (Dawar) is about 140 km north from Srinagar taking around 6-7 hours for the entire journey.
The travel to Gurez can be divided into two parts. 1) The upward travel to Razdan Pass at 11,550 ft. 2) The second leg of your travel will be from Razdan Pass down to the base town of Dawar at 7,870 ft.
First section of the drive takes you through Srinagar city and the city outskirts. The drive is about an hour away. Once you cross the city, you have the Kashmir valley opening up. The drive becomes extremely picturesque hereone. You drive through crisp pin forests, valleys and mountain passes. It is anything unlike Kashmir. The drive ends at the beautiful Dawar Valley on your right.
Read More
Gurez (Dawar) is about 140 km north from Srinagar taking around 6-7 hours for the entire journey.
The travel to Gurez can be divided into two parts. 1) The upward travel to Razdan Pass at 11,550 ft. 2) The second leg of your travel will be from Razdan Pass down to the base town of Dawar at 7,870 ft.
First section of the drive takes you through Srinagar city and the city outskirts. The drive is about an hour away. Once you cross the city, you have the Kashmir valley opening up. The drive becomes extremely picturesque hereone. You drive through crisp pin forests, valleys and mountain passes. It is anything unlike Kashmir. The drive ends at the beautiful Dawar Valley on your right.
Expect to reach Dawar by 4pm.
Note: If you are travelling in Kashmir before Day 1, please ensure you reach the campsite well before time.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Dawar to Dison
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 5 km
Altitude gain: 7,870 ft to 10,340 ft
Today is a short but exciting day! You start by walking for a short distance of around 500 metres along the Dawar Valley till you reach a football ground on your left. This is where the ascent starts.
You trek for another 800 metres in grasslands before coming across some treeline. This is where the forest starts. It's a refreshing zig-zag climb into the pine forest. The forest you see in Kashmir is not as dense as those in Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh. It's airy and sparse.
After 2 kilometres of ascending, you pop into a wide meadow clearing. This is Gurez Valley. As you climb for another 15 minutes - you'll reach a viewpoint, and on your left, you'll witness the Habba Khatoon mountain and a few villages. This viewpoint has the best view of the mountain. The LOC border is also precisely here- dividing the villages into India and Pakistan!
Read More
Today is a short but exciting day! You start by walking for a short distance of around 500 metres along the Dawar Valley till you reach a football ground on your left. This is where the ascent starts.
You trek for another 800 metres in grasslands before coming across some treeline. This is where the forest starts. It's a refreshing zig-zag climb into the pine forest. The forest you see in Kashmir is not as dense as those in Uttarakhand or Himachal Pradesh. It's airy and sparse.
After 2 kilometres of ascending, you pop into a wide meadow clearing. This is Gurez Valley. As you climb for another 15 minutes - you'll reach a viewpoint, and on your left, you'll witness the Habba Khatoon mountain and a few villages. This viewpoint has the best view of the mountain. The LOC border is also precisely here- dividing the villages into India and Pakistan!
From this viewpoint, descend down for 10 minutes. You'll see a shepherd hut. This is where you'll camp for the day. Camp close to the shepherd hut.
The day is easy on the legs, so after setting up camp, explore the surrounding area. You see massive silver birch trees surrounding you.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Dison to Khaari
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 8 km
Altitude gain: 11,340 ft to 11,300 ft via 11,700 ft
Today you’ll start inching towards the higher altitude of 11,300 ft. Though it is a gradual ascent and descent.
Start your trek by ascending from the Dison campsite to a high point of Dawar Heights at 11,700 ft. The trail is extremely well laid and green.
Turn and descend to your left and trek for 3 kilometres on a ridge before reaching a shepherd hut.
Read More
Today you’ll start inching towards the higher altitude of 11,300 ft. Though it is a gradual ascent and descent.
Start your trek by ascending from the Dison campsite to a high point of Dawar Heights at 11,700 ft. The trail is extremely well laid and green.
Turn and descend to your left and trek for 3 kilometres on a ridge before reaching a shepherd hut.
From the Shepherd hut, you’ll see an army camp on your left. It's a small walk towards the camp.
As you reach and trek from the Army camp, you’ll notice a diversion. The one that is straight ahead takes you to Patalwansar Pass. You have to take the right.
Right as you snake through this diversion, you see small boulders. This is Khaari. You will be camping here today.
After setting up camp, explore the surrounding area. Go up the Patalwansar Pass. Walk along the horse trail around the campsite.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Khaari to Patalwansar Lake I via Patalwansar Lake II
Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Trek Distance: 8 km
Altitude gain: 11,300 ft to 12,650 ft via 12,795 ft
Today is an adventurous day! You’ll trek to Patalwansar I lake via Patalwansar II. Both lakes are completely different. The Patalwansar II lake is huge while the Patalwansar I is as long as your eyes can see!
Start today by trekking on massive boulders. It will be 3 km long. So make you warm up well before starting the trek. Again, as you reach the end of the boulder section, you’ll come across a mountain that is a diversion. One leading to Patalwansar I lake on the right and the other leading to Patalwansar II straight ahead. Take the straight.
Ascend for around 2 km straight and turn right to reach Patalwansar II lake. The scale of this lake is huge.Spend some quiet serene moments here.
Read More
Today is an adventurous day! You’ll trek to Patalwansar I lake via Patalwansar II. Both lakes are completely different. The Patalwansar II lake is huge while the Patalwansar I is as long as your eyes can see!
Start today by trekking on massive boulders. It will be 3 km long. So make you warm up well before starting the trek. Again, as you reach the end of the boulder section, you’ll come across a mountain that is a diversion. One leading to Patalwansar I lake on the right and the other leading to Patalwansar II straight ahead. Take the straight.
Ascend for around 2 km straight and turn right to reach Patalwansar II lake. The scale of this lake is huge.Spend some quiet serene moments here.
From here, head towards Patalwansar I Lake. You will have a moderate ascend of about 1.4 km before reaching a viewpoint. From here you’ll start seeing a blue coloured tail snaking towards the right.
From here, you have a steep 200 metre descent. As you descend, follow the tail to see a huge long lake opening up and presenting itself. This is Patalwansar I Lake. Walk another 500 metres around the lake. You will be camping here today right next to the lake.
After setting up camp, explore the surrounding area. Walk around the Patalwansar II Lake. It’s absolutely surreal.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Patalwansar I to Dison
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek DIstance: 12 km
Altitude loss: 12,650 ft to 10,340 ft
Today is a long day. You will be trekking for almost 12 km, all in descent.
Start of the trek by leaving Patalwansar I Lake campsite to Khaari. The trail is 3.5 kms long and full of boulders.
From Khaari you will head to Dison campsite. The trail is completely meadowy with long descent walks of about 9 kilometres. The trail is extremely green and enjoyable.
Read More
Today is a long day. You will be trekking for almost 12 km, all in descent.
Start of the trek by leaving Patalwansar I Lake campsite to Khaari. The trail is 3.5 kms long and full of boulders.
From Khaari you will head to Dison campsite. The trail is completely meadowy with long descent walks of about 9 kilometres. The trail is extremely green and enjoyable.
Camp at Dison cmapsite. After setting up camp, explore the surrounding area again. You see massive silver birch trees surrounding you, Habba Khatoon mountian and enjoy the sunset.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 6: Trek Dison to Dawar. Drive from Dawar to Srinagar
Trek Duration: 3 hours | Trek Distance: 4.6 km
Drive Duration: 6-7 hours | Drive Distance: 141 km
Altitude loss: 10,340 ft to 5,220 ft
It’s the last day of the trek today. But it’s a challenging day, and you’ll end the trek on a high!
The day begins with a steep descent from Dison to Dawar from the other side. You descend along a ledge surrounded entirely by rocks and pine forests. The descent is 2 km long. Witness the view of Dawar from here. It's absolutely stunning!
Once the descent ends, walk along Dawar for another 2 km before having lunch.
Read More
It’s the last day of the trek today. But it’s a challenging day, and you’ll end the trek on a high!
The day begins with a steep descent from Dison to Dawar from the other side. You descend along a ledge surrounded entirely by rocks and pine forests. The descent is 2 km long. Witness the view of Dawar from here. It's absolutely stunning!
Once the descent ends, walk along Dawar for another 2 km before having lunch.
Head back to Srinagar after lunch.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Buffer Day
For all your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability. This depends completely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir. The buffer day is mandatory to keep in your itinerary.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs 1,800 per day +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
For all your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability. This depends completely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir. The buffer day is mandatory to keep in your itinerary.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs 1,800 per day +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Gurez Valley Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 37.6 km in five trekking days, reaching a highest altitude of over 13,000 ft above sea level. Although it is rated as a moderate trek, there are ascents, descents, and boulder sections that require proper fitness and mental preparation.
The Terrain:
The trek involves long days of trekking. There are multiple days that are almost 10 kms long. On the last day, you trek for 16 kms at a stretch. This requires good stamina and preparation.
You start traversing boulder sections on the way to your Khaari campsite. Beyond Khaari, the actual boulder fields begin and you trek through it continuously for over 3 kms. This requires strong legs and careful footing.
The descent to Patalwansar Lakes from Khari can be tricky. The next day, on your way to Dison, you need to climb back up the same boulder fields. These will test your preparation.
The initial descent to Dwar from Dison is steep and along a narrow, rocky ledge. Although this section is not too long, it can be tricky.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc., wherever required.
Weather:
The Gurez Valley Trek is ideal for monsoons because it sits in a rainshadow region. However, at higher altitudes, sudden rains and snows are always a distinct possibility.
Rainfall or snowfall lasting hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood campsites or make the trails too slushy to walk safely on, while snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. In conjunction with the Trek Leader, our technical team constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
On the first day of your trek, you gain almost 3000 ft in elevation over just 5 km of trekking. You hit the 10,000 ft mark on this day itself. Such rapid elevation gain makes you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountain Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
On the Gurez Valley Trek, the only exit point is Dawar. So you need to be alert and watch out for symptoms of AMS closely.
Closest Hospital to the Gurez Valley Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is at Dawar. You have a medical facility to handle emergencies. For any major emergencies, Bandipora is the best place for getting any treatment.
If you require serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Gurez Valley Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to be on this trek is from the beginning of July to the middle of September . That’s the only time you can trek here. In all the other seasons, Kashmir trails are buried under snow.
This season brings up many questions in the mind of a trekker. Primarily because it is monsoon in the rest of the country, will it rain heavily on the trek? Well, most trails in Uttarakhand are shut during this time. But things are different in Kashmir.
If you observe the map, you see the Pir Panjal range separating Kashmir from the rest of the Indian subcontinent. This range is 288 km long and 40-50 km wide. It blocks most rain clouds from crossing over into the Kashmir Valley.
This divide determines the nature of precipitation and the vegetation in this rainshadow area. All of which stand very different from the rest of the country.
July to September is peak summer, transitioning to Autumn and the best time to trek in Kashmir. The landscape comes alive during this window. And even though the window is tight, you notice the landscape changing colour and texture as the months proceed.
Gurez Valley in early July
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 2 °C and 7 °C
Presence of snow: Snow remains at higher altitudes. But the trek is more or less accessible. As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month. The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
This is peak summer in Kashmir. The upper reaches of the trek start crawling out of the snow blanket in July. It’s warm, and you experience light evening showers during this month.
The trail to Gurez Valley opens in the first week of July. Snow remains at higher altitudes. But the trek is more or less accessible.
As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month.
The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
Gurez Valley from mid-July to third week of August
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Most snow has melted by now. Frozen chunks of ice in Patalwansar I & II would have melted.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
After mid-July, a robust trekking season begins in Gurez Valley. Expect bright sunny mornings with some evening showers. Rains are still mild compared to rains in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
The trail is carpeted with green meadows everywhere. The best part is that these meadows are densely dotted with wildflowers!
Gurez Valley from Aug-end to second week of September
Day time temperature: Between 14 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperature : Between 0 °C and 5 °C
Presence of snow: You can expect snowfall during the second week of September
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
After the end of August, cold sets in. Rains reduce, giving way to one of the best times to do the trek. The clouds part during this time of the year, and you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes.
Another stark change that happens in early September is the change in the colour of the meadows. The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers change. And yet, there's a beauty to this change of tone.
We usually stop our trek after the second week of September. It turns colder, and the chances of snowfall increase. That raises the trek's difficulty, and crossing the pass is no longer possible. The trail on the other side becomes inaccessible.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
It is great to see you going on the Gurez Valley Trek. While it is an excellent trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly.
The trek of Gurez Valley starts from Dawar, one of the lesser-known hill stations of Kashmir. To reach Dawar, the best way to reach will be to use a shared taxi or private vehicle.
If you are taking the pickup through Indiahikes, your Experience Coordinator will share the details a week before your trek date. The cost from Srinagar to Dawar comes to Rs 6,000 per vehicle.
If you are trekking alone, you get a shared taxi from Mundi Bus Stand, Srinagar, to Bandipora. It takes about 2 hours to reach Bandipora and costs you Rs 120.
From Bandipora to Dawar, take another shared taxi. It takes about 4 hours to reach Dawar. It costs Rs 300 for an Innova and Rs 500 for Bolero. Note that no taxi services are available from Bandipora post 2 PM. Also, you’re not allowed to stay there due to military reasons. So plan your travel accordingly.
Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air ticket to Srinagar. If you reach in the morning, you can think about travelling to Dawar on the same day instead of staying at Srinagar. Click here for more explanation.
Note: Some stay options if you have an extra day at Srinagar: Hotel Chinar Inn , Royal Athena Houseboats and Alhamra Retreats .
Day 8: Book a return flight ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 7. Click here for more explanation.
Note :
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.
On your return, your trek ends in Dawar. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar. You reach Srinagar between 5 and 6 pm.
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to either Srinagar.
There are two options.
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar.
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. Many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, you have multiple options. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
Tip: Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT than the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it “ Bus Adda ”. The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Pro Tip: Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket, keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Dawar is about 3 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 5 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So it would be best if you stayed in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 8. You must include the buffer day in your itinerary. Day 7 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 8.
Note: The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. Reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
Book your flight out from Srinagar.
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
| Pro Tip: Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
4. Planning your hotel/stay
Hotel options at Srinagar
Hotel Chinar Inn is one option. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Royal Athena Houseboats is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Alhamra Retreats is a guest house with good facilities available.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
Contact Number: +91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
Other hotel options that are close to the pick-up point:
Hotel Care is just next to our Base, the pick-up location of the trek. Hotel Adlife and Hotel Centre Point are two other recommendations.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Gurez Valley Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Gurez Valley Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What does an Indiahikes Assisted DIY trek mean? expand accordion
A DIY trek, as the name suggests, is a Do-It-Yourself trek. You manage everything — you set up camp where you want to, you cook your own meals, you navigate the trail using GPS maps, and you trek at your own pace.
A Trek Leader from Indiahikes accompanies you on the trek. Their job is to look into your safety. They carry all emergency safety equipment, including life-saving drugs.
Read this article to know more about this trek.
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How many lakes will I see on the Gurez Valley? expand accordion
On the Gurez Valley Trek, you'll come across 2 pristine alpine lakes. They are turquoise blue. You’ll get to witness all these lakes on Day 4 at almost 13,188 ft and youll even be camping next to one!
Patalwansar I
Patalwansar II
How long is the Gurez Valley Trek? expand accordion
On the Gurez Valley Trek, you cover around 36 km in 5 days (6 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 7,870 ft in Srinagar to Patalwansar II lake at 13,188 ft. You’ll trek long distances, around 7 km on average, every day.
Is the Gurez Valley Safe? expand accordion
A lot of poeple are enquiring about the safety of The Gurez Valley trek. We want to say that this trail is completely safe even though its next to POK. It is in the remote regions of Kashmir, away from the hotbed of turmoil. Theres also high military presence around the trek. So the trekking trail itself is completely safe.
However, political unrest, curfews and clampdowns have occurred in the past during our trekking season. We have tackled these efficiently, never compromising on the safety of trekkers. We travel during non-curfew hours and take measures to safely pick up or drop trekkers at the airport.
Sometimes, we call off treks if the situation is too serious (for instance when Burhan Wani was shot and the political situation in Kashmir was out of control). Calling off a trek is a worst-case scenario and has not occurred too many times in the past.
Keep in mind that if we are running the Bodpathri Meadows Trek, you can assume that it is safe. We would not compromise on anyone’s safety and run it during dangerous times.
How fit do I need to be for Gurez Valley Trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Gurez Valley requires a good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 20 km a week or 80 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us
OR
Alternatively, cycle for at least 22 km in 60 minutes . Aim to cycle 110 km a week or 440 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
I’m more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes, you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Can I offload on this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
Can I keep extra luggage at the basecamp? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.