Hampta Pass Trek 2026 - Himachal’s Most Famous Pass Crossing Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Is Hampta Pass Safe in Monsoon?
Hampta Pass
One of the Most Dramatic Crossover Treks in the Himalayas
Is trekking to Hampta Pass in the monsoon season safe?
Here is our 12-Page Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass. This will answer many of your questions. Download our 12-Page Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass.
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Manali: Your trek begins at our Jungle Line campus — tucked inside dense deodar forests and apple orchards in the silent outskirts of Manali.
Icy River Crossings on Foot: Cross not one but two glacial streams on foot, the Rani Nala at Jwara and the Hampta Nala at Shea-Goru. The moment their icy current bites at your legs, you understand why trekkers never forget this trek.
The Iconic Campsites: Lush meadows at Jwara, a glacial floor at Balu Ka Ghera and a stream-side meadow at Shea Goru. Every campsite is iconic on the Hampta Pass Trek.
Mountain Views and Hanging Glaciers: From Indrasan and Deo Tibba at the pass, Inderkilla at Chhatru and the rare hanging Hampta Glacier that you see on the way to the pass– these mountain views make Hampta Pass one of the most complete pass crossing treks in Himachal.
The Contrast on Two Sides of Hampta Pass: From Balu ka Ghera, trek through narrow gorges, ridges and one ledge after the other before the pass opens up suddenly, behind a bend. Forests, meadows and wildflowers on the Kullu side give way to the cold desert landscape of Lahaul.
One of the Most Dramatic Crossover Treks in the Himalayas
Hampta Pass is a 14,000-foot-high connection between two starkly different landscapes. On one side, you have the lush greenery of Kullu Valley—thick forests, open meadows, and wildflowers lining the trail. On the other side of Hampta Pass, you step into the barren, rugged beauty of Lahaul. The terrain is stark, the mountains bare, and the skies endlessly blue.
Traditionally, it used to be a Summer Trek. But when we did the trek in monsoon, this sudden shift in landscapes felt almost magical. Standing on the top of the pass, what’s ahead and behind are two different worlds. Even more remarkable is how quickly these changes occur. Most pass-crossing treks are longer. They require much more time and effort. But at Hampta Pass, you witness this shift in just 25 km of moderate level trekking. This is where the Hampta Pass Trek stand out for us.
Did you know we run Adventure Therapy Treks on the Hampta Pass trek? If you're feeling stuck, overwhelmed, or seeking clarity, this therapeutic journey—guided by a trained therapist—can help you break through. Read more here.
play video
On the trek, you cross not one but two major glacial streams and navigate a challenging ascent to the pass. The trek takes you through glacial valleys filled with moraines, scree, and boulders. Trekking across multiple ridges and ledges, you arrive suddenly at the pass. From the pass, you see every aspect of glacial erosion spring vividly into life. Along the trail, several spots may seem like you have reached the pass, but you are certain until you finally arrive.
Read more
expand overview
On the trek, you cross not one but two major glacial streams and navigate a challenging ascent to the pass. The trek takes you through glacial valleys filled with moraines, scree, and boulders. Trekking across multiple ridges and ledges, you arrive suddenly at the pass. From the pass, you see every aspect of glacial erosion spring vividly into life. Along the trail, several spots may seem like you have reached the pass, but you are certain until you finally arrive.
Setting aside the stunning sceneries and the thrill of the trail, every campsite on the Hampta Pass trek offers a unique experience of its own. At Jwara, you see an incredible abundance of wildflowers. Many trekkers call it Himachal’s Valley of Flowers. At Balu ka Ghera, you are right at the bouldery cradle of a U-shaped glacial valley, set against towering snow peaks of Pir Panjal range. In peak monsoon, you see multiple streams gushing down the steep valley sides. And once you cross the Pass and descend to Shea Goru, it is a whole different world. The camp is set right beside a gushing glacial stream, on a green meadow dotted with flowers.
On this relatively short trek, spanning 25 km over 4 days of trekking, you pass verdant forests, lush meadows, cross a dramatic high-altitude pass, and arrive into the stunning Lahaul Valley. Every day is extraordinary on the Hampta Pass Trek.
5 Things We Love About the Hampta Pass Trek
1) The Scenic Drive from Manali to Jobra
Your journey begins with a spectacular drive from Manali to Jobra, the trek’s starting point. It’s hard to believe how much the scenery changes in just an hour. The road winds through apple orchards, thick deodar forests, and finally oak trees. The last stretch to Jobra has 42 hairpin bends! This drive itself is a prelude to the adventure ahead. If you’re lucky enough to sit on the left side of the vehicle, you’ll find yourself glued to the window, soaking in the views.
2) River Crossings
The Hampta Pass trek kicks off with adventure from Day One. You cross the gushing Jobri Nala over a rickety wooden bridge. The next day, while trekking towards Jwara, you walk across Jobri Nala over a wooden bridge again. Right before reaching Jwara, you encounter your first river crossing on foot. The icy current of Rani Nala bites at your legs. The crossing is as nerve-wracking as it is unforgettable. Later, beyond Shea Goru, the mighty Hampta Nala tests you once more. This glacier-fed stream is the first challenge of your day as you head towards Chhatru. The water numbs your feet instantly — but the thrill lingers long after the trek ends.
3) The Thrill of Crossing Hampta Pass
The highlight of this trek is, of course, the Hampta Pass crossing. It’s a dramatic and exhilarating experience. The trail takes you through a narrow gorge with stark brown walls on either side and deep white snow underfoot. As you climb ledge after ledge, the sense of adventure builds. Reaching the pass feels like a triumph. You have left the lush green Kullu Valley behind you. The cold deserts of Lahaul lie ahead.
4) Stunning Campsites
The campsites on this trek are something to look forward to. You have to cross the gushing Rani Nala to reach Jwara Campsite. It is a lush green space nestled between two beautiful valleys. The next campsite, Balu Ka Ghera, is a stark contrast. It is nestled amidst boulders and surrounded by snow-covered peaks.
Shea Goru, on the other side of the pass, is situated amidst a picture-perfect U-shaped valley, formed by glacial erosion. Here, you camp right next to the Hampta Nala and in the shadows of the mighty Deo Tibba and Indrasan peaks.
5) Mountain Views and Hanging Glaciers
Mountain views often take a backseat on the Hampta Pass trek — but they quietly steal the show. From the pass, the sharp peaks of Indrasan and Deo Tibba dominate the skyline. As you descend towards Chhatru, Inderkilla Peak rises to your left. And then there’s the hanging Hampta Glacier — a rare sight. You spot it as you approach the pass from Balu Ka Ghera. It feeds the Hampta Nala, beside which you camp at Shea Goru.
At Indiahikes, we believe that treks like Hampta Pass are rare gems. From a dramatic pass crossing to serene campsites and river crossings– the sheer variety it offers over 4 days of moderate level trekking is mind-boggling.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Hampta Pass : Take on the adventure of trekking to Hampta Pass, one of the most breathtaking crossover treks in the country, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Manali Jungle Line Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from lunch at Manali on Day 1 to Dinner at Chhatru on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Manali Beas Bridge to the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus costs Rs 500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek. All vehicles are non-AC.
On Day 6, the drop-off directly to Beas Bridge, Manali from Chhatru via Chandratal costs Rs 2200 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek. All vehicles are non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.2000 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Is Hampta Pass Safe in Monsoon?
Download Now: The Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass
Hampta Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Hampta Pass trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Now: The Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass
Study this map to know about Hampta Pass trek route, itinerary, campsites, terrain and more.
Day 1
Drive from Manali to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, drive to Jobra Roadhead, and trek to Jobra Campsite
Drive from Beas Bridge to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus : 15 km | Drive Duration: 34 mins
Drive from Jungle Line Campus to Jobra: 27 km | Drive Duration: 1.5 hrs
Trek Distance : 1.5 km | Trek Duration : 1 hour
Indiahikes will arrange pick-up from Beas Bridge, Manali to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at 7:00 am sharp. The cost is ₹500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Manali (Beas Bridge) to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
If you are reaching on your own, make sure to reach Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus latest by 8:00 am.
Drop off your cloakroom bag, collect your rentals, and offload (if you have opted for it) at Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus . Meet your trek leader here and have early lunch before the drive to Jobra. The cost of the drive to Jobra from Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus is included in the Trek Fee.
Day 2
Trek from Jobra to Jwara
Trek Distance: 4.50 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude Gain: 8965 ft to 11005 ft
Day 3
Trek from Jwara to Balu Ka Ghera
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude Gain: 11005 ft to 12220 ft
Day 4
Trek from Balu ka Ghera to Shea Goru via Hampta Pass
Trek Distance: 8 km | Trek Duration: 9 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 12220 ft to 12695 ft via 14,065 ft
Day 5
Trek from Shea Goru to Chhatru.
Trek Distance: 7 km | Trek Duration: 4.5 hours | Altitude Loss: 12695 ft to 10785 ft
Day 6
Drive from Chhatru to Manali via Chandratal
Drive Distance (including Chandratal): 160 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | D rop-Off Time at Manali Beas Bridge: 8 PM
Rental and cloakroom returns will take place at Chhatru campsite before you leave to Manali. A visit to Chandratal Lake is included in your return transportation cost. If you have not booked Indiahikes Transport, you'll have to pay separately for this excursion to Chandratal.
Important Note: Carry Rs 150 (in cash) for Chandratal Lake Entry Fee. This amount is to be paid directly to the authorities upon arrival.
Indiahikes will arrange transport from Chhatru to Manali. The cost for this drop-off is ₹2200 (additional 5% GST). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Arrive at Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali by 8.00 am. Drive to Jobra Roadhead, and Trek to Jobra
Drive Duration: 1 hour 20 minutes | Trek Duration: 1 hours
Altitude: 8965 ft
Arrive at Manali a day in advance. Reach Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali by 8.00 AM. You can also choose to stay nearby at Sarsai or Naggar.
The base camp for the Hampta Pass trek is Jobra. The picturesque drive especially from Manali, along with 42 hairpin turns, has panoramic views of Kullu Valley. The Rani Nallah, which you will trek alongside till it disappears under the snow of Hampta Pass, starts accompanying you from here. From the road head at Jobra, the campsite is a 30-minute trek through a mixed forest of pine, bright green maple trees and luminescent silver birch.
Cross the road where you get off from the vehicle and take the small path into the forest. The forest is mostly Pine with an occasional Maple tree with its new lush green leaves - a pleasant change in the vegetation. It's an easy slope and after 20 minutes into the forest, you come to a bend with a huge rock that overlooks a meadow strewn with small rocks.
Camp in the meadows for the night to acclimatise better.
Read More
The base camp for the Hampta Pass trek is Jobra. The picturesque drive especially from Manali, along with 42 hairpin turns, has panoramic views of Kullu Valley. The Rani Nallah, which you will trek alongside till it disappears under the snow of Hampta Pass, starts accompanying you from here. From the road head at Jobra, the campsite is a 30-minute trek through a mixed forest of pine, bright green maple trees and luminescent silver birch.
Cross the road where you get off from the vehicle and take the small path into the forest. The forest is mostly Pine with an occasional Maple tree with its new lush green leaves - a pleasant change in the vegetation. It's an easy slope and after 20 minutes into the forest, you come to a bend with a huge rock that overlooks a meadow strewn with small rocks.
Camp in the meadows for the night to acclimatise better.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Jobra to Jwara
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance: 4.50 km
Altitude Gain: 8965 ft to 11005 ft
Difficulty: Easy-moderate. Easy walk to Chika for about an hour followed by 2 hours of ascent through a boulder section. Descent for 1-1.5 hours easing off into a level walk.
The meadow near Jobra has the Rani Nallah or Rani river flowing in between and on either side, you will see hills with rock faces. Some cows and sheep graze in the meadow which is lined with Maple and Pine trees. Early in the season one may find some snow by the side of the river.
You can traverse the meadow or climb up the left hill. The climb makes the path slightly shorter. The river flows right in the middle and water is no issue. You can take a break here at Chika.
Jwara is to the right of Chikha and can be identified by a couple of waterfalls in the distance. Head right but stay on the left bank of the river throughout. The initial climb is mainly through stones and boulders. The going is never too difficult. The right bank of the river is laced with dwarf Rhododendrons in the lower and middle region of the mountain and Birch trees grow at the upper end.
Read More
The meadow near Jobra has the Rani Nallah or Rani river flowing in between and on either side, you will see hills with rock faces. Some cows and sheep graze in the meadow which is lined with Maple and Pine trees. Early in the season one may find some snow by the side of the river.
You can traverse the meadow or climb up the left hill. The climb makes the path slightly shorter. The river flows right in the middle and water is no issue. You can take a break here at Chika.
Jwara is to the right of Chikha and can be identified by a couple of waterfalls in the distance. Head right but stay on the left bank of the river throughout. The initial climb is mainly through stones and boulders. The going is never too difficult. The right bank of the river is laced with dwarf Rhododendrons in the lower and middle region of the mountain and Birch trees grow at the upper end.
Look back and you will see the Dhauladhar range with its snow-clad peaks. It makes a pretty picture. You will find a waterfall to your left. Relax and replenish your water supplies at this spot.
After the waterfall, you move to your right, heading towards the river, which has a lot of boulders around it. Take off your shoes if you wish and jump across the rocks on the Rani Nallah. The water is icy cold as one would expect.
You are now about halfway through your trek as you enter a walled valley. On one side of the valley are the rock faces and on the other end is the river below. Once you cross the river, you are at Jwara where nature is at her dramatic best.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Jwara to Balu Ka Ghera
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance : 5 km
Altitude Gain: 11005 ft to 12220 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Short meadow walk followed by boulder section for a couple of hours, leading to a trail on loose rocks all the way. Very gradual incline through the day.
The river has snow flows melting and feeding it while numerous sheep and mules feed on the green grass. In front are snow-clad mountains beyond which lies the Hampta Pass.
Walk along the Rani river heading into a rectangular valley. On your way, you will find a variety of tiny flowers - purple, yellow, pink etc. The trees are now left behind. You won’t find them anymore for quite some time. It takes about half an hour to cross the valley.
Our Senior Trek Leader, Aditya Bodke says, "There is a section on this day that goes through a flattish terrain where you are surrounded by flowers. You see the long, pink distorts, marigolds, and blue poppies. The Rani Nallah is flowing on the side. The ascent is gradual, so you get time to walk at leisure, introspect as you go through this section."
Read More
The river has snow flows melting and feeding it while numerous sheep and mules feed on the green grass. In front are snow-clad mountains beyond which lies the Hampta Pass.
Walk along the Rani river heading into a rectangular valley. On your way, you will find a variety of tiny flowers - purple, yellow, pink etc. The trees are now left behind. You won’t find them anymore for quite some time. It takes about half an hour to cross the valley.
Our Senior Trek Leader, Aditya Bodke says, "There is a section on this day that goes through a flattish terrain where you are surrounded by flowers. You see the long, pink distorts, marigolds, and blue poppies. The Rani Nallah is flowing on the side. The ascent is gradual, so you get time to walk at leisure, introspect as you go through this section."
After you come out of Jwara, you need to walk further along. The terrain flattens as you reach Chota Balu ka Ghera where you can rest for a bit and have a quick snack. Then continue further along the river, crossing small snow flows and jumping across rocks.
Towards the end, the rocks are quite far apart and jumping across gets tricky. Soon after, you will reach the destination for the day – Balu Ka Ghera or the bed of sand. The ground is formed mainly by the sand and dust brought down by the river.
It is level ground and behind you are the mountains you will traverse the next day to cross the Hampta Pass. Pitch your tent and enjoy a beautiful sunset behind the Hanuman Tibba peak. You are now close to 12,500 ft above sea level.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Balu ka Ghera to Shea Goru via Hampta Pass
Trek Duration: 9 hours | Trek Distance: 8 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 12220 ft to 12695 ft via 14,065 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. An hour of gradual ascent after which the trail becomes steep uphill till the pass, interspersed with short descents. 2 hours of steep descent from the pass, easing off into a flat walk.
Today’s trek can be broken into two stages - the climb to Hampta Pass which is moderately steep followed by a steep descent to Shea Goru. You will want to take a small break at the top of the pass to make it your target to reach the pass by lunchtime, have lunch there and then start the descent.
You begin your day by heading towards the mountains from Balu Ka Ghera. You may get a pleasant surprise with lots of tiny pink and yellow flowers growing by the side of the river. Move along the river for an hour after which you will be above it. At some points, the trail may fade out so be careful not to get lost. Stay with your team.
After an hour of a gentle gradient in a rockfall prone area, the climb picks up. This is the first serious incline you will encounter. Half an hour into the climb, you will reach the first plateau. Here you get to see the Deo Tibba peak right in front of you.
Read More
Today’s trek can be broken into two stages - the climb to Hampta Pass which is moderately steep followed by a steep descent to Shea Goru. You will want to take a small break at the top of the pass to make it your target to reach the pass by lunchtime, have lunch there and then start the descent.
You begin your day by heading towards the mountains from Balu Ka Ghera. You may get a pleasant surprise with lots of tiny pink and yellow flowers growing by the side of the river. Move along the river for an hour after which you will be above it. At some points, the trail may fade out so be careful not to get lost. Stay with your team.
After an hour of a gentle gradient in a rockfall prone area, the climb picks up. This is the first serious incline you will encounter. Half an hour into the climb, you will reach the first plateau. Here you get to see the Deo Tibba peak right in front of you.
If you are here during early summer, there is a good chance that this entire section is filled with snow. At other times, you may get only some patches of snow.
Take a breath, wait for your team to catch up and begin the next ascent. This is another inclined part that has two stages to it and finally ends at the ridge. The climb will take you 20-30 minutes. From the top of the ridge, you will see another parallel one, which is your next destination. Hampta Pass is a bend away from the top of the second ridge.
Before descending to the side of the second ridge, continue walking on the first ridge for a small distance to get a 360-degree view of the intriguing mountain peaks like Peak 5260 surrounding you. This is a good spot for a panoramic shot.
After descending and 15 minutes of going by the side, you begin the vertical climb which gets over in 20 minutes. You may be panting at the end of it but you are almost there at 14,000 ft, atop the Hampta Pass.
The descent is slightly trickier than the ascent. It can vary slightly depending on the snow condition too. Sliding down may be an option if there is snow. From the pass, take a turn towards the right. You can see the Lahaul side of the pass below.
Go down in a zig-zag route and then stick to the right flank of the mountain. You will have to walk over slippery soil and stones too. In half an hour the first downhill run is done.
A u-turn brings you right below the pass. From here it is a straight downhill trek on snow; you could also follow the zig-zag path down until you hit the valley below. In an hour and a half, you will be at the base of the valley. Tall snow-clad mountains surround you from three sides and the open side leads you to Shea Goru.
Shea Goru is an almost level walk from here. It should be an easy walk though some may find it tiring after the long day traversing the pass. You will find the river again, flowing to your right. Choose a nice campsite close to the river and retire happily for the day after crossing the Hampta Pass.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Shea Goru to Chhatru.
Trek Duration: 4.5 hours | Trek Distance: 6 km
Drive Duration: 2 hours | Drive Distance: 50 km
Altitude Loss: 12695 ft to 10785 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. 2-2.5 hours of walking on moraine and loose rocks on gentle inclines, followed by a descent to Chhatru across a couple of glacial flows.
The descent gets a little tricky as you move closer to the road. You will need to traverse by the edges of rocks, and sometimes it might just be easier to get down into the river/glacier bed below to skip the rocky section and get back up.
There are also a couple of places with slippery soil. So you need to be nimble and hop down them to prevent yourself from sliding.
This section would take 2½ – 3 hours when you are out of the mountains. You are still at a height, but you have the road right across and the Chandra river separating you from the road.
Read More
The descent gets a little tricky as you move closer to the road. You will need to traverse by the edges of rocks, and sometimes it might just be easier to get down into the river/glacier bed below to skip the rocky section and get back up.
There are also a couple of places with slippery soil. So you need to be nimble and hop down them to prevent yourself from sliding.
This section would take 2½ – 3 hours when you are out of the mountains. You are still at a height, but you have the road right across and the Chandra river separating you from the road.
Two to three massive glacial flows come down from the mountains on the side of the Chandra river.
You will need to cross these streams to reach a camping spot which has water. Chhatru is a lovely camping site. You get lovely views of the different mountain ranges. The Chandra river flows at speed right below.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Chhatru to Manali via Chandratal (depends on accessibility)
Drive Distance: 160 km (including Chandratal) | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours
After an early morning debriefing, bid the Lahaul Valley goodbye and head back to Manali via Chandratal today on your way to Manali.
If the roads are clear and devoid of snow, visiting Chandratal, the moon lake, is a must when you are in Lahaul. Chhatru is about 50 km away from Chandratal. You will take a vehicle to Chandratal from Chhatru.
Important Note: Carry Rs 150 (in cash) for Chandratal Lake Entry Fee. This amount is to be paid directly to the authorities upon arrival.
Read More
After an early morning debriefing, bid the Lahaul Valley goodbye and head back to Manali via Chandratal today on your way to Manali.
If the roads are clear and devoid of snow, visiting Chandratal, the moon lake, is a must when you are in Lahaul. Chhatru is about 50 km away from Chandratal. You will take a vehicle to Chandratal from Chhatru.
Important Note: Carry Rs 150 (in cash) for Chandratal Lake Entry Fee. This amount is to be paid directly to the authorities upon arrival.
The journey takes about 3 hours one way, and the road is quite bumpy, so it is advised that you start well in the morning. Those who have motion sickness don't forget to take Avomine tablets.
Please note that the road to Chandratal is highly dusty and can lead to a problem if you are asthmatic.
If you have some energy to spare, walk up the hill next to Chandratal. From the top, apart from being able to identify the moon shape of the lake, you'll be able to see a second lake out in the distance surrounded by scenic peaks like the CB-13.
Since Chandratal is at an altitude of 14,026 ft, there are good chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness if you're not well hydrated .
In late summers, the road opens up to Chhatru and beyond. If you are early or late in the season, Chandratal may be ruled out, and you may have to walk on the road to a place where the road has been cleared off its snow flows.
Please note that as a part of the Hampta Pass trek, you'll not be camping at Chandratal. After a visit to Chandratal, you'll be heading back to Chhatru.
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult is the Hampta Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 26 km in five trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,100 ft (8,965 ft to 14,065 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents on uneven trails. The river crossings on this trek can be especially challenging.
Terrain:
On the first day of your trek, you cross a gushing stream over a wooden log to reach Jobra campsite. During peak monsoons, this can feel a bit nerve-racking.
The trail to Jobra climbs through forests. In heavy rain, this trail can get slushy and slippery.
Ahead of Jobra, you cross a stream over a narrow wooden log again right at the start of your day’s trek.
Just before Jwara, you need to cross the Rani Nala on foot. The water is biting cold and can reach upto your waist. Your Trek Leader and Guides shall help you navigate this crossing by forming a human chain.
The final day of ascent from Balu ka Ghera to Hampta Pass is challenging. You traverse multiple ledges and ridges, trekking continuously on bouldery moraine sections.
The descent from Hampta Pass is extremely steep and has a lot of switchbacks. This can get slippery in heavy rain. You can expect a lot of snow here, even in June.
The final day of your trek from Shea Goru starts by crossing the ice-cold glacier melt water of Hampta Nala. There are other stream crossings near Chhatru as well but you’ll find wooden bridges placed over most of them. However, in June and July, there may be snow bridges on which you can walk across the streams.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Concerned about River Crossings on the Hampta Pass trek? Download the Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass now.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic.
In June, when there is a lot of snow on the trail starting from Balu Ka Ghera, the trail can get slippery. However, this can be managed with the right gear like microspikes and gaiters.
In July and August, rain is a common occurrence. It makes the trail slippery and tricky. Moreover, the force of water at river crossings can increase, making it challenging to cross them.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The Hampta Pass trek is situated at 14,065 ft above sea level. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountain Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
Hampta Pass, being a Pass-crossing trek, has limited exit points. If you haven’t crossed the pass, then head down Jobra before moving on to Manali.
After crossing the pass, you’ll have to make it to Chhatru before heading to Manali via Rohtang Pass.
Closest Hospital to the Hampta Pass Trek:
Mission Hospital in Manali is the closest one to Hampta Pass, in case of a medical emergency during the trek. Manu Diagnostics Center and Hospital, also in Manali, is another option.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Hampta Pass Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Even though Hampta Pass is a high-altitude trek, it can be done for almost 6 months in the year. The very best time would be between June and September . You can extend it to the end of October .
Some attempt the trek in the middle of May, but the snow is too high for a comfortable pass-crossing. Even in the best months between June and September, the trek is not the same every month.
Is monsoon trekking really for you? Download the Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass to know better
Watch this video to get an idea of how the trek looks like in different seasons
Hampta Pass in June
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: Despite it being summers, expect snow patches on the ground. Especially close to Balu Ka Ghera and above it is still snow bound.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
In June expect a lot of snow from Balu Ka Ghera onward. You will find good snow slightly after Balu Ka Ghera camp right until the pass. You’ll get snow even until you get down on the Lahaul side. The depth of snow on both sides is quite high. The flats leading to the grassy camp of Shea Goru could have some patches of snow too.
The reason for the good snow even in late June is because the valley leading up to the Hampta Pass is narrow, with not too much sun on it. The depth of snow is high.
Hampta Pass in July and August
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: Snow starts to melt as we enter July. By August most of the snow is gone, except for some patches near Hampta Pass.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
In July the snow starts to melt rapidly but stays in good patches on the higher reaches of the pass. But different magic starts to unfold from mid-July onward.
Our Senior Trek Leader, Aditya Bodke says, "Anyone who has been on the Hampta Pass trek must have noticed those long, pink flowers in the valley. These are called 'distorts'. Apart from these, you spot many other flowers like the marigolds and blue poppies in the flowering season which begins in July."
The valley starts to get its first monsoon showers. Wildflowers begin to sprout in the entire green belt on the Kullu side. Sometimes trekkers have to wade through a bed of wildflowers on either side of the trail.
If there is a favourite time to do the trek, then mid-July to the end of August is the best time to do the Hampta Pass trek . The grasslands are a vibrant green. The slopes are alive with swaying wildflowers. On the other hand, the skies are generally cloudy though. Be game for good showers on the trek. The rains last until the mid of September.
Hampta Pass in September
Day time: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and 3 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow in the month of September on the trail.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Post-mid-September, the skies start to clear up and the early autumn colours strike the slopes. The Hampta Pass is at its most colourful . The sunrises and sunsets are gorgeous, the snow-clad mountains stand tall against the deep blue skies. The trek is at its most perfect.
At Indiahikes we wind up the Hampta Pass season at the end of September.
By the end of the first week of October, the air is nippier. The early winter chill is felt. Night temperatures will fall below zero in most camps. At the higher camps, it could be icy cold. The streams dry up and water sources become increasingly difficult. The earth is browner. The boulders were starker.
While it is possible to do the trek in October it is not as much fun.
Is trekking in monsoon safe?
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations, we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed, keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
To understand the Hampta Pass trek in Monsoon better, download the Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass here
How to Plan Your Travel for the Hampta Pass Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali , is the base camp of the Hampta Pass trek. It is situated in Sarsai , a quaint hamlet, about 15 km from the main bustling center of Manali.
You must reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali , by 8 AM on Day-1 of your trek.
You can choose to arrive at the campus by yourself.
Alternatively, Indiahikes arranges for transport to the Jungle Line Campus from Manali . Indahikes vehicles will pick you up from Beas Bridge in Manali at 7 AM on Day 1 of your trek.
In either case, we recommend that you reach Manali by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Manali by 24th August. This gives you a buffer to account for unexpected delays and also allows you to rest well before starting your trek.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Manali:
Manali is easily accessible by road from Delhi and Chandigarh . However, the stretch beyond Mandi on NH-3 is prone to frequent landslides, often leading to delays. Keep this in mind while planning your journey.
The easiest way to reach the Manali is to:
Fly to Delhi , take a direct bus from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Manali
Fly to Chandigarh , take a direct bus from Chandigarh to Manali .
Flight options to reach Manali:
Pro Tip: If the flights to Chandigarh are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Manali. Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Chandigarh. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Chandigarh is less than Rs 1000, then book for Chandigarh. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus in Sarsai
From Manali-
Sarsai is 15 km from the main center of Manali on the Kullu-Naggar-Manali Road. From the Sarsai Bus Stand , it is just a 10-15 minute walk to the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus
By Auto or Private Cab: Fare ranges between Rs.500 to Rs.1000
By Public Bus: Buses leave for Naggar from Manali Bus Stand every 30 minutes. They pass via Sarsai.
Public Bus Timings: First bus from Manali at 7:00 AM.
Please Note : Buses from Delhi or Chandigarh drop you at the Manali Private/Volvo Bus Stand. The local bus to Sarsai leaves from the Manali Local Bus Stand, 1.5 km away. You can walk or take an auto to reach the local bus stand.
From Delhi/Chandigarh-
Option 1: Get down at Kullu and take the Local Kullu-Manali Bus to Sarsai
Take any bus to Manali from Delhi / Chandigarh
Get down at Kullu Bus Stand instead of going all the way to Manali
Local Buses run regularly from Kullu to Manali via Sarsai. Take this bus and get down at Sarsai
From the Sarsai Bus Stand , it is just a 10-15 minute walk to the Indiahikes Campus
Option 2: Get down at 15-Mile and take a Cab to Sarsai
Take any bus to Manali from Delhi / Chandigarh
Get down at the 15 Mile Bus Stop instead of going all the way to Manali
Hire a cab for the 12 km journey to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus
Secret Travel Tip: From the 15-Mile Bus Stand, a wooden bridge over the Beas River leads into the Batahar Bihal Forest. The Indiahikes Campus is just a 3-km scenic walk through these deodar forests and apple orchards. If you are traveling in September or October, you’ll see apple trees laden with fruit. Before you take this hike, stop by The Cafe House for carrot cakes and trout fish grills.
Important Note
If you cannot reach a day early, ensure you leave at around 6.00 PM the previous evening (Day 0), so that you are well on time for the pick up in case of unexpected delays in reaching Manali.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Hampta Pass Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Hampta Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Hampta Pass Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Hampta Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What is the height of Hampta Pass? expand accordion
Hampta Pass is at a height of 14,065 feet/4287 meters above sea level.
Starting at Jobra (9379 ft/ 2858 m) you climb to Hampta pass(14065 ft/4287 m) over two and half days of trekking. That’s an average of 2000 ft/600 m of height gain everyday.
The trail climbs steadily until Balu Ka Ghera followed by a steep climb to the pass. The descent from the pass is steep to Shea Goru beyond which is a gentler descent.
How difficult is Hampta Pass trek? expand accordion
Hampta Pass Trek is a moderate trek on a difficulty level ranging from easy to difficult.
You start from Manali which is at an altitude of 6,725 ft and reach an altitude of 14,000 ft in a matter of 4 days.
For the most part though, it is an easy hike through the valley.
However, the terrain becomes difficult as you get closer to the pass. The pass crossing day is a long walk of almost 9 hours.
This makes the trek a moderate one. It is a good trek for fit first timers.
Is trekking in monsoon safe? expand accordion
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations, we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed, keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
Have more questions? Download the Ultimate Monsoon Guide to Hampta Pass here
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
How to Get Fit for Hampta Pass trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Hampta Pass requires a good fitness level. The trek has long walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 20 km a week or 80 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
Will there be any mobile phone network on the trek? expand accordion
There is no network connectivity on this trek. Network will stop right after you climb up from Prini. Prini is the last place you will get network on the way forward.
On your return, you will get a network near Rohtang Pass and Manali only.
Before leaving Manali, call your family and friends and know that you won’t be available for them until you get back to Manali on Day 6.
Where will I find ATMs on the trek? expand accordion
Unlike other treks there is no base village for Hampta pass. The trek starts at a place called Jobra where the taxi will drop you.
There are multiple ATMs at Prini en route to the base camp. If you need some cash handy this is the place to make a withdrawal.
There are no ATMs after the pass crossing too until you get back to Manali.
Will there be electricity at the campsite/s on the trek? expand accordion
There is no electricity throughout the trek. The only place you’ll find a plug to charge your phone or camera batteries will be Manali before and after the trek.
Therefore use your electronic equipment wisely. Fully charge your batteries before leaving your hotel and use your electronic equipment minimally.
Another thing to note the cold temperatures drain the batteries faster. Having extra batteries or a power banks helps.
Is Cloakroom facility available on the Hampta Pass trek? expand accordion
Yes, we have an option of leaving behind extra luggage you do not need on the trek, at Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali . It will be handed over to you at Chhatru on the last day of your trek.
Ensure you leave no valuables (laptops, cash, electronics) in this luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
(The luggage could be a backpack / suitcase / duffel bag or anything similar.).
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Hampta Pass trek is Rs 2,000 excluding tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
How to reach Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali? expand accordion
Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali is located at Sarsai which is on the Manali-Naggar road, about 3.5 km away from the 15 Mil bridge . To reach there, you can get down at 15 Mile bridge, if you are travelling by a bus from Chandigarh or Delhi.
If you are reaching a day early, you can stay at Manali and reach the campus by the pick-up cab arranged by Indiahikes at 7 am, from Beas Bridge , Manali.
For a detailed travel plan, head over to how to reach section .
Is there a fee for Chandratal? expand accordion
Yes. Carry Rs 150 (in cash) for Chandratal Lake Entry Fee. This amount is to be paid directly to the government authorities upon arrival.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.