Har Ki Dun Trek 2026 | A Culture-Rich Valley in the Himalayas Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Har Ki Dun
A 500 Year Old Culture Trek
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Request A Callback
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Kotgaon: Overlooking terraced fields and traditional homes of Kotgaon, this is one of our most picturesque community campuses.
Living Traditions of Ancient Villages : Gangad, Osla, Dhatmeer — wooden houses perched mid-air, intricate temple carvings, traditional attire. A centuries-old living culture .
Walking Along the Thamsa River: Trek and camp along the Thamsa River. See the river twist and turn, shaping the Har ki Dun valley and its culture .
Swargarohini Rising from the Valley Floor: See the famous Swargarohini Peak rise straight from the valley floor, towering over everything around it.
A 500 Year Old Culture Trek
Har Ki Dun is a stunning valley carved by the Thamsa River, tucked away in the western part of Garhwal, in Uttarakhand. It stands out as one of the most ancient trails in the region. We truly haven't seen a trekking trail that is so steeped in history and culture. Talking of culture, Sandakphu comes to mind. But the depth of unique regional heritage and mountaineering legacy in Har Ki Dun is on a whole different level.
Har Ki Dun has been known for centuries, long before maps were drawn or trekking guides came into existence. There are well-documented accounts of explorers visiting the valley as early as the 1800s, witnessing ancient villages thriving in full swing. Yet we wanted to veer slightly off the beaten path. We wanted to show trekkers a side of the Har-Ki-Dun trek they rarely see. So we chose a route different from the regular trail, which includes terrific scenic beauty on the new route while retaining the ancient charm of the old route.
play video
You can feel that ancient connection as you walk through the villages along the way–Taluka, Dhatmeer, Dharkot, Gangad, and Osla. Each of these has preserved its own culture, language, and customs. Residents of the valley revere it as the sacred home of the Mountain Gods. In fact, “Har ki Dun” literally translates to the “Valley of Shiva.” Every village has an ancient Someshwar Devta Temple, showing this strong belief. But even without the legends, the valley is so beautiful, it feels like a home fit for the gods. Although roads have started to creep in and modern life is slowly reaching these parts, the essence of the region still feels untouched. You’ll see it in the traditional wooden houses, the age-old water mills, and the unique weaving styles that locals still practice today.
Read more
expand overview
You can feel that ancient connection as you walk through the villages along the way–Taluka, Dhatmeer, Dharkot, Gangad, and Osla. Each of these has preserved its own culture, language, and customs. Residents of the valley revere it as the sacred home of the Mountain Gods. In fact, “Har ki Dun” literally translates to the “Valley of Shiva.” Every village has an ancient Someshwar Devta Temple, showing this strong belief. But even without the legends, the valley is so beautiful, it feels like a home fit for the gods. Although roads have started to creep in and modern life is slowly reaching these parts, the essence of the region still feels untouched. You’ll see it in the traditional wooden houses, the age-old water mills, and the unique weaving styles that locals still practice today.
But Har Ki Dun is much more than its history. We love the trek because it is as visually stunning as it is culturally enriching. Most valley treks in our country are just a route to a bigger highlight. You pass through the Kedar Ganga valley to reach Kedartal, or trek through the valley of Hamta Nala to cross Hampta Pass. Even in the Valley of Flowers, you spend just a day in the valley. Har Ki Dun is different. Here, the valley is the highlight.
You trek through the stunning Thamsa valley from start to finish. Its grandeur, changing landscapes, and timeless charm make it stand apart. From the meadows of Kalkatiyadhar and Devsu Thatch to the forests of Boslo, you get to see a stunning range of Himalayan landscapes on this trek. Peaks like Kalanag and Swargarohini stand tall over the valley. Swargarohini, especially, appears to rise straight from the valley floor.
Walking through Har Ki Dun is like stepping into a quiet Himalayan amphitheatre — a rare blend of ancient history and untouched wilderness. It’s one of the few treks in our country where you’re fully immersed in a high Himalayan Valley for days, surrounded by towering peaks, forests, and timeless villages.
5 Things We Love About the Har ki Dun Trek
1) The Trek from Dharkot to Gangaad
Right from the beginning, the trek sets a magical tone. The trail from Dharkot to Gangaad is an enchanting walk beside the Thamsa River, under a lush canopy of green. The forest, alive with the fresh scents of pine and oak, feels almost like a picture-perfect park. Charming old wooden bridges pop up along the way, making for excellent photo opportunities. As you progress, the forest grows denser, its solitude broken only by the river’s tinkling. This undulating trail finally opens up to the ancient village of Gangaad, a quaint settlement that marks the end of this idyllic start to the trek.
2) The Expansive Meadows of Kalkatiyadhar
Perched high above the valley, Kalkatiyadhar is a vast meadow that surprises trekkers with its sheer expanse. The rolling greenery is surrounded by layers of towering mountains and dense forests. From this vantage point, the Swargarohini massif peeks at you from a distance. The open space, combined with the dramatic backdrop of the valley, makes Kalkatiyadhar a campsite unlike any other.
3)The Timelessness of Har Ki Dun’s Ancient Villages
The villages of Gangaad, Osla, and Dhatmeer are windows to a way of life that has remained unchanged for centuries. These hillside hamlets, with their wooden houses seemingly perched in mid-air, exude an old-world charm that transports you back in time. The temples, adorned with intricate carvings, stand as silent witnesses to an ancient culture. Villagers dressed in traditional attire and headgear go about their daily lives, blending harmoniously with their natural surroundings. Spending a night here lets you experience their warmth, hear their stories, and appreciate the simplicity of their lifestyle.
4) The Forests of Boslo
Despite everything said about Har Ki Dun, Boslo often goes unnoticed. But the forest trail leading to it stands out for many reasons. You walk under towering, ancient fir trees, with the sound of the Thamsa stream close by. At the forest's edge, the campsite opens into a vast clearing, framed by the four Hata peaks rising beside Har Ki Dun. It’s one of the most humbling parts of the trek, a quiet reminder of how small we are in the face of nature.
5) The Hidden Gem: Devsu Thatch
Tucked away amidst dense forests of ancient firs, Devsu Thatch is a treasure waiting to be discovered. This sprawling meadow, bordered by flowering shrubs and carpeted with colourful blossoms in spring, feels like a secret world within the valley. The meadow’s gentle slopes flow down for hundreds of metres, creating a layered effect that feels almost artificially landscaped. At over 10,000 ft, the views from Devsu Thatch are unmatched — the triangular Har Ki Dun valley stretches out before you, framed by towering peaks and lush greenery.
Har Ki Dun is a rare blend of culture and grand Himalayan views– a must-do for mountain lovers and culture enthusiasts alike.
To dive deeper into the culture, geography, and history of the valley, head to our Har Ki Dun deep dive page .
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Har Ki Dun : Take on the cultural journey to Har ki Dun, one of the most ancient trek routes of our country, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Kotgaon Community Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Kotgaon on Day 1 to dinner on Day 6 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹2600 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.2000 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Har Ki Dun - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Har Ki Dun trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
The day-wise section of Har Ki Dun has been documented in detail by our trekker Shakti Nirmal .
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A trek map of the Har Ki Dun trek
Day 1
Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Pick up for Indiahikes trekkers: Place - Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun (6.30 am) | Indiahikes basecamp Location: Kotgaon
Transport will be organised from Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun , at 6.30 AM. The cost is Rs.1300/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Drive from Kotgaon to Dharkot. Trek from Dharkot to Gangaad
Drive Duration: 1.5 to 2 hours | Trek Distance: 2.6 km | Trek Duration: 1.5 hours | Altitude Change: 8265 ft to 7767 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate | Gradual descent from Dharkot to Gangaad.
Day 3
Trek from Gangaad to Kalkatiyadhar via Osla
Trek Distance: 8.4 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude Change: 7767 ft to 9983 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate | Initial descent of 15 minutes followed by a mostly level walk for about 90 minutes. Steep climb for 15 minutes followed by a level walk and boulder section, finishing off with a gradually ascending trail.
Day 4
Trek from Kalkatiyadhar to Har Ki Dun to Boslo
Trek Distance: 10.5 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude Change: 9,983 ft to 11,600 ft to 10,502 ft
Difficulty : Moderate | The ridge walk from Kalkatiyadhar to Boslo can get a bit tricky. Once you pass Boslo, it is a gradual walk till Har Ki Dun and back.
Day 5
Trek from Boslo to Devsu Thatch
Trek Distance: 5.1 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude change: 10,502 ft to 9,878 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate | Gradual descent from Boslo to Devsu Thatch.
Day 6
Trek from Devsu Thatch to Dharkot. Drive from Dharkot to Kotgaon.
Trek Distance: 10.3 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude Change: 9,878 ft to 8,265 ft
Difficulty: Moderate | Gradual descent till Gangaad and a steep ascent to Dharkot.
Day 7
Drive from Kotgaon to Dehradun
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Drop off for Indiahikes trekkers: Place - Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Drop off time: 7 pm
This transport cost has to be borne by trekkers and paid directly to the driver. The cost is Rs.1300/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
You’re not just walking from one campsite to another—there’s a lot more the trail reveals. To go deeper into the geography and culture of the Har Ki Dun trail and Kotgaon, head to our Deep Dive page .
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours
The Drive
The first half of the journey gradually ascends through Dehradun (and later Mussoorie) with boarding schools and farms on either side of the road. Later, the scenery is replaced by chandelier-like pines covering large expanses of sloping mountains.
Far off you may spot snow-capped peaks.
Read More
The Drive
The first half of the journey gradually ascends through Dehradun (and later Mussoorie) with boarding schools and farms on either side of the road. Later, the scenery is replaced by chandelier-like pines covering large expanses of sloping mountains.
Far off you may spot snow-capped peaks.
The breeze is cool. You'll pass pushcarts selling plums, apricots, peaches, rhododendron juice, local tea, etc.
Green Trails Tip : Make sure you get your own mug to avoid using a plastic or paper cup. This will prevent you from generating waste.
You'll pass several villages, namely, Naugaon, Mori, and Purola. The Naitwar village marks the beginning of the Govind Pashu Vihar National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary. You'll spot the Har ki Dun along with several other peaks of the Garhwal Himalayas.
The Supin and Rupin rivers merge to form river Tons. The greenish waters of River Tons accompany you for a while. Spot Rupin at Naitwar and later, Supin at Sankri.
The Basecamp
Kotgaon is a small but pretty village with 250 houses. A few dhabas and shops contribute to the economy of this quaint village.
The village offers a beautiful view of the sun setting behind the greater Himalayas. The peaks of Swargarohini shimmer in the evening sun, standing tall over the ridges beyond Kotgaon.
On arriving at Kotgaon—your destination for the day—a row of vibrant houses with little cafes and shops emerge in view. The structures in the village are made of wood to keep warm since temperature drops can be harsh.
The Indiahikes homestay is three-storied with decks on the floors above. It overlooks the tiny, colourful houses of the village.
Notice how the birds begin singing at 5 am. You hear them throughout the day, especially in the mornings and evenings.
The village also has a long-held tradition of beating the drums at night, indicating bedtime, and in the morning, prompting everyone to wake up.
Want to know what the drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon looks like? Read more on the Deep Dive Page .
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Drive from Kotgaon to Dharkot. Trek from Dharkot to Gangaad.
Drive Duration: 1.5 to 2 hours
Trek Duration: 1.5 hours | Trek Distance: 2.6 km
Altitude Change: 8265 ft to 7767 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate | Gradual descent from Dharkot to Gangaad.
The Drive:
Your journey begins with a drive from Kotgaon to Dharkot. It is a small village, roughly 23 km away from Kotgaon. The road to Dharkot passes through some beautiful mountain bends, with views of Mount Swargarohini and Mount Rangalana. You will also see sights of many hanging Himalayan villages on the mountain edges.
Notice the houses you pass by. They are built using a technique called Koti-Banal architecture, which uses a combination of wood, stone, and slate. Such construction protects against seismic forces and the harsh climatic conditions prevalent in the region.
Read More
The Drive:
Your journey begins with a drive from Kotgaon to Dharkot. It is a small village, roughly 23 km away from Kotgaon. The road to Dharkot passes through some beautiful mountain bends, with views of Mount Swargarohini and Mount Rangalana. You will also see sights of many hanging Himalayan villages on the mountain edges.
Notice the houses you pass by. They are built using a technique called Koti-Banal architecture, which uses a combination of wood, stone, and slate. Such construction protects against seismic forces and the harsh climatic conditions prevalent in the region.
Around 4 km from Kotgaon, you reach Sankri. Sankri is famously known as the base camp of the Kedarkantha trek. In winter, it is packed with trekkers. This is your last stop to buy any last-minute trekking gear. After this, you step into remote villages with no shops/markets.
To travel to Dharkot on your own: Hire a jeep locally from Kotgaon or Sankri. Remember that this is a landslide-prone route and is often closed during the monsoons. So, plan accordingly.
What to expect on the trek:
The trail immediately sets off from Dhatmeer (a small village en route) onwards till Dharkot on a muddy jeep track. Follow this route for around 4 km. Dense coniferous forests surround you, with several water channels crisscrossing your path.
At Dharkot, spot a small Shiva temple. You’ll find open ground on the temple premises where you can break for lunch. Rhododendron, malta, and seabuckthorn are popular seasonal juices sold in the dhaba next door.
Post-lunch, the trek picks up pace with a descent down to the Thamsa River. Throughout this 1.5 - 2 km, you trek past millet and potato fields, two crops that form the staple diet of the region.
After a quick descent, you reach Thamsa, a river that will be your companion through most of the Har Ki Dun trek. Thamsa is a tributary of the Yamuna, which takes its birth in the upper ranges of Mt. Bandarpoonch. During the day, the sands glimmer along the riverbank. Notice the numerous gleaming rocks of mica covering the terrain.
With the river on your left, spot a shepherd’s trail descending beside it. Around 10 minutes into the descent, spot a cemented bridge over a small stream.
Within 15 minutes of a gradual descent, you reach a wooden bridge. Fill your bottles here. Then walk uphill for 15 minutes till you see a small clearing next to the river. You can set up an emergency camp here if need be.
Another 10-15 minutes later, you’ll come across a spot where you can descend to a tributary of the Thamsa River. Here, facing the inner part of the valley, locate two trails, one moving upwards and another going straight ahead. Take the second route straight ahead.
The trail from here may be in bad condition, as it is prone to landslides. After 10-15 minutes of a level walk, you’ll come across land cleared by shepherds. This is to set up temporary night shelters.
Ten minutes into the climb, look out for another landslide-prone section. You may have to come down the river and cross the section that has caved in due to landslides. 20 minutes on this trail, will lead you to a wooden bridge to cross the Thamsa River. From here, a 7 to 10-minute climb will lead you to the homestay. You will now have arrived at the village of Gangaad.
Life at Gangaad:
The first thing you’ll notice about Gangaad is that the wooden houses are two or three-storied. Take a closer look at them when you get a chance, because these houses are architectural marvels. They are so in harmony with their mountainous surroundings that there is a remarkable amount of modernity and wisdom in their construction.
For instance, all houses face the east, ensuring they maximise sunlight even in the cold winters. The roofs of these houses are made of heavy stone sheets called ‘Patali’. These are intricately put together to make angled roofs so that snow/rain slides off easily. The weight of the stones also protects the homes from the wind and other harsh weather conditions.
But what they do further to regulate heat will baffle you. Cattle are reared at lower levels. Sheep and goats are in the middle level, and humans are at the top-most level. Heat trapped in the lower levels from the cattle helps regulate the temperature above, keeping the whole building warm in the winter.
Looking beyond the homes, in the heart of this ancient hamlet are a primary school and a temple dedicated to Someshwar Mahadev. You may often find the temple closed. This is because the residents believe that the gods move from one temple to another during different seasons. But when open, the temple has strong traditional practices, including the sacrificial goat. Every time an individual leaves the village in pursuit of better prospects and opportunities or when a special occasion arises, a goat is sacrificed and cooked, which is then shared among all the villagers.
Beyond the village, you’ll notice that the mountain across the valley is rife with greenery, mostly spruce, whereas the side you’re standing on is mostly barren and ridged. You’ll notice this in many parts of the Himalayas. It is mostly caused by different factors like exposure to sunlight, moisture from rain/snow, and the type of soil.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Gangaad to Kalkatiyadhar via Osla
Trek Distance: 8.4 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours
Altitude Change: 7767 ft to 9983 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate | Initial descent of 15 minutes followed by a mostly level walk for about 90 minutes. Steep climb for 15 minutes followed by a level walk and boulder section, finishing off with a gradually ascending trail.
The path from Gangaad to Kalkatiyadhaar is relatively rockier than other sections of the trail.
There are stretches where the trail is overlaid with sizable rocks—it’s easy to sprain your ankle in these sections. In these sections, the trick is to move ahead by using the edge of rocks as a foothold—the edge is the line that juts out at the top. This provides a good grip for your shoe to move forward from without angling the ankle at all. During descents, make sure you land softly on each foot since the impact of walking on such a terrain for hours on end is bound to make your knees hurt—so try lowering the impact as much as possible. Further, walk in a meandering or zigzag fashion to alternate the pressure on each knee—this helps a lot! Moreover, wearing kneecaps may prove to be very useful since it partially absorbs the impact.
Descend from Gangaad and cross a bridge that leads you to the other side of the river. The river, which now falls on the left, is notably wider and more forceful than any other tract you may traverse along during the trek. After a half an hour walk, notice the campsite on the right. This is Chilurgarh. Walk ahead and spot a little sheltered gazebo-like structure by a wooden bridge. Such shelters usually serve as a place where people light up bonfires to warm themselves up. However, Indiahikes does not allow bonfires owing to its environmental repercussions, so refrain from starting one.
Read More
The path from Gangaad to Kalkatiyadhaar is relatively rockier than other sections of the trail.
There are stretches where the trail is overlaid with sizable rocks—it’s easy to sprain your ankle in these sections. In these sections, the trick is to move ahead by using the edge of rocks as a foothold—the edge is the line that juts out at the top. This provides a good grip for your shoe to move forward from without angling the ankle at all. During descents, make sure you land softly on each foot since the impact of walking on such a terrain for hours on end is bound to make your knees hurt—so try lowering the impact as much as possible. Further, walk in a meandering or zigzag fashion to alternate the pressure on each knee—this helps a lot! Moreover, wearing kneecaps may prove to be very useful since it partially absorbs the impact.
Descend from Gangaad and cross a bridge that leads you to the other side of the river. The river, which now falls on the left, is notably wider and more forceful than any other tract you may traverse along during the trek. After a half an hour walk, notice the campsite on the right. This is Chilurgarh. Walk ahead and spot a little sheltered gazebo-like structure by a wooden bridge. Such shelters usually serve as a place where people light up bonfires to warm themselves up. However, Indiahikes does not allow bonfires owing to its environmental repercussions, so refrain from starting one.
After a while, look for a diversion to your right. It takes you to a dhaba by a wooden bridge. Behind the dhaba is a small hut. Go and witness a fascinating process: the locals use the momentum of water (hydroelectricity) to run a mechanical turbine that grinds cereal into flour. Just 25 metres before the wooden bridge, on the right, is Pauni Garaat.
An alternative for the Puani Garaat campsite: Those who want to camp at Osla will have to cross the wooden bridge. Get onto the left side of River Thumsa and trek along the river to reach Osla.
An alternative route from Puani Garaat: To reach Seema, trek straight up on the true right of the river to Seema. There are a few steep ascents, but the trail often relaxes into a gradual walk. The landscape and the terrain will remain so for around 90 minutes.
From Seema, walk towards a bridge over Thumsa to the left side of the valley. Look for a small, cemented bridge, some 60 metres above you. A broken trail leads to this bridge. Walk across and get on the trail leading to Osla on the left.
Along the way, observe a rich foliage of purple poppies and other alpines with motley butterflies fluttering around in clusters of indigo, orange, white, brown, and black. A series of rhododendron trees tinted red, pink, and white, either in bloom or wound up, is a sight of unparalleled beauty. The local tea, called Chora, gets its special aftertaste from red rhododendrons (the white ones are poisonous). At several places, innocent-looking plants like Nettle and Poison Ivy splotch the ground underneath. Nettle leaves, clever in its design, sting the fingertips when touched, and you are left scratching your head looking for the pointy thorn that pricked you. Numerous white wild roses with sappy little leaves on both sides of the trail will be discernable through and through. Admire the tiny offshoots of yellow and purple flowers springing from rocky crevices and clumps of grass on the trail.
Perceive the mountains in view with frozen glaciers cleaving through the upper slopes; notice the stark contrast of glazing whiteness with the dark green overlay surrounding it. Leap from boulder to boulder to cross the pouring waterfalls, which will mellow down at places and make for shallow rivulets submerging only the soles of your boots.
After a considerable ascent, enter the village of Osla. It is a tiny village with vast open spaces. The children here play cricket using a washing bat and a rolled-up ball made by stringing together disparate pieces of cloth. A huge, sheltered place stands beside an open ground by the temple of Someshwar Devata. The ground is where the children play! It is notable that trash lying around near the villages is much more than along the trails, so make sure to collect maximum waste from here.
From Osla, trek for an hour or more. A large meadow thriving with crops of millet will come into view. With a backdrop of green hills, people rearing cattle, and travellers lazing around on rocks and the two wooden beams making an “L” beside a quirky dhaba makes for an appropriate resting place and a darling treat to the eye. Lie back and observe the endless peaks, valleys, and rivers harmonise in a beautiful, dreamy view. Explore the crops, the rocks, and bask in the afternoon sunshine or the shadow of the passing clouds, depending on the weather.
Moving on from here, after a few twists and turns and a bridge and another dhaba (drink Chora tea from here), begin your ascent to your first campsite, Kalkatiyadhar. The splendid views from the campsite involve sights of our two surreal valleys—Har ki Dun. The entirety of Hatta peaks dominates the skies, along with the Black peak (Kalanaag), Bandarpunch 1, and Bandarpunch 2. Devsu Thach, our last campsite, is also visible from here.
Sprawled all over the campsite will be tents and mats and farms and flocks of sheep chasing one another. Cows and dogs will moo and bark at one another while you are highly encouraged to stupidly bleat at the sheep who will respond with judgemental stares and look around confusedly. As much as you might love animals, do not separate any lamb from its peers (even for a selfie)—the poor thing gets very anxious.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Kalkatiyadhar to Har Ki Dun to Boslo
Trek Distance: 10.5 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours
Altitude Change: 9,983 ft to 11,600 ft to 10,502 ft
Difficulty : Moderate | The ridge walk from Kalkatiyadhar to Boslo can get a bit tricky. Once you pass Boslo, it is a gradual walk till Har Ki Dun and back.
It’s the most exciting day of the trek!
The itinerary for the day involves trekking from Kalkatiyadhar to Har ki Dun via Boslo. The road to Boslo begins with a gentle ascent of 40–45 minutes, after which follows a flat trail. Notice the Bhojpatra trees on either side of the trail, the trunks of which will seem misshapen compared to the tall, vertical pines. The peeling nature of the trunk adds to its gnarly composition. They only grow above a certain elevation, i.e., above 10,000 ft.
Look for a magnificent waterfall which you may either cross by stepping on big boulders or by walking on thin wooden beams in a wobbly balancing act. Right by it is a dhaba big enough to accommodate 20 people. Even though it’s tempting to stop and drink chai at every stop, it’s important keep in mind that the fuel source used is not too efficient. At places where gas cylinders are not readily available, wood is the main source of fuel which is highly toxic for the environment.
Read More
It’s the most exciting day of the trek!
The itinerary for the day involves trekking from Kalkatiyadhar to Har ki Dun via Boslo. The road to Boslo begins with a gentle ascent of 40–45 minutes, after which follows a flat trail. Notice the Bhojpatra trees on either side of the trail, the trunks of which will seem misshapen compared to the tall, vertical pines. The peeling nature of the trunk adds to its gnarly composition. They only grow above a certain elevation, i.e., above 10,000 ft.
Look for a magnificent waterfall which you may either cross by stepping on big boulders or by walking on thin wooden beams in a wobbly balancing act. Right by it is a dhaba big enough to accommodate 20 people. Even though it’s tempting to stop and drink chai at every stop, it’s important keep in mind that the fuel source used is not too efficient. At places where gas cylinders are not readily available, wood is the main source of fuel which is highly toxic for the environment.
Behind the dhaba is a wooden bridge, after which follows a gradual ascent till a lightning-struck tree, followed by a soothing descent of an hour or more. The walk is pleasant and relieving after all the burn your quads have endured. After the descent, turn right. Our next campsite will emerge in view.
Even though every campsite has its unique features which makes it supreme in its own way, Boslo is undoubtedly the best if one was forced to pick a “favourite”. The campsite consists of a soft, damp ground underneath which the river tends to pass—making it a natural waterbed. The expanse of the campsite is a limitless stretch from one side where the four peaks of Hatta rise along with Har ki Dun, to another side that goes towards —Ruinsara. The campsite is long and wide on all sides and consists of huge boulders to sit and ponder, scattered across the landscape. The river rushes down at an energetic pace, circumventing the rocks and boulderstones in its way which are thrust into the ground with a determined firmness. The formidable mounts ahead are very still and intimidating, making it all one of the most humbling experiences, culminating in the realisation of human fragility.
The mornings at Boslo makes the place the very archetype of Paradise on Earth when the sun floods the village with bright golden light and the birds call and respond to one another with their constant twitters.
Since it’s the summit day, everyone will carry day packs. From Boslo, the summit is attempted through a considerable ascent of 1.5–2 hours, throughout which you will meet a lot of trekkers returning from the summit and wishing you luck on the way. The surroundings are thriving with birch trees. After a while, look for a thach ahead of you. You may rest and snack on nuts to keep up the energy. Once you reach a flat expanse at the end of your ascent, notice Thumsa on your right, as clear as day and shallow enough for you to cross to the other end.
A series of patchy lightning-struck trees on the right of the river loom ominously. On your left will rise sturdy mountains, unclimbable through normal means. Right ahead, marking the summit is a small temple of Lord Shiva, encasing a huge Shivling, and a GMVH rest house just beside it. Massive boulders are scattered across the landscapes underneath which notice the trekkers warming themselves up. After a certain distance, cross a wooden bridge and begin your final ascent to reach the summit. You can either go up to the temple and take a right or traverse the grassy area without any marked trails to directly reach at the top.
A beautiful world unravels itself. On the right, get a glimpse of Swargarohini 1, 2, & 3 (4 is on the other side of the valley, and hence, not visible). Behold the Hatta peaks along with a splendid view of the Jaundhar glacier and Maninda Tal, from where Thumsa originates. It’s a sheer impossibility to comprehend the sublimity of the prospects before you. A panoramic view of the most renowned peaks contouring the skyline puts you in a trance where all you are aware of is the senses perceiving the landscape and the awareness of the self becomes an intangibility—your consciousness is an aspect wholly devoted to discerning the vistas and everything else dissolves into oblivion.
Descending to Boslo is a reward on its own, since, after a long day, you need a place like this to hold you.
Curious why Swargarohini is the biggest highlight of Har Ki Dun? Find out on the Deep Dive Page .
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from Boslo to Devsu Thatch
Trek Distance: 5.1 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Altitude change: 10,502 ft to 9,878 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate | Gradual descent from Boslo to Devsu Thatch.
The route from Boslo to Devsu Thatch is a cakewalk compared to what you have accomplished. It’s mostly a levelled trail where trekking will feel more like a stroll. Initially, there’s a beautiful forest stretch which you must experience by staying mindful and engaging your senses. Pay attention to the smells and how they change throughout the stretch. Listen to the birds chirruping to one another. If the air is cold, let the chill and the goosebumps overwhelm you. Notice the wandering butterflies and observe the rocks you step on. This flourishing extent will have so much to give so take it all in.
Towards the end of the forest, observe the snow-capped mountains reflecting a blinding whiteness under the sun. On your left is Swargarohini along with other peaks. The legend in the region tells of the impossibility of climbing Swargarohini—the mountain through which the Pandavas achieved their ascent to heaven. It says that whoever attempted to climb the magnificent peak has had to return owing to some snowstorm or rainsquall, however, no-one has ever met their demise during the climb.
The trail to Devsu Thach mostly consists of a levelled trail with a few descents and ascents on the way. There is a forest stretch after which, ascend to a bridge across the Kyarakoti river and attempt the steepest ascent of the trek. The ascent will take around half an hour and one will require multiple halts in between. Make sure you make good use of the trekking pole/s to partially take off the burden off your legs. It is a meandering ascent with large vein-like roots protruding out of the ground—they make for good footholds. There is a short, levelled trail in between where you may catch your breath.
Read More
The route from Boslo to Devsu Thatch is a cakewalk compared to what you have accomplished. It’s mostly a levelled trail where trekking will feel more like a stroll. Initially, there’s a beautiful forest stretch which you must experience by staying mindful and engaging your senses. Pay attention to the smells and how they change throughout the stretch. Listen to the birds chirruping to one another. If the air is cold, let the chill and the goosebumps overwhelm you. Notice the wandering butterflies and observe the rocks you step on. This flourishing extent will have so much to give so take it all in.
Towards the end of the forest, observe the snow-capped mountains reflecting a blinding whiteness under the sun. On your left is Swargarohini along with other peaks. The legend in the region tells of the impossibility of climbing Swargarohini—the mountain through which the Pandavas achieved their ascent to heaven. It says that whoever attempted to climb the magnificent peak has had to return owing to some snowstorm or rainsquall, however, no-one has ever met their demise during the climb.
The trail to Devsu Thach mostly consists of a levelled trail with a few descents and ascents on the way. There is a forest stretch after which, ascend to a bridge across the Kyarakoti river and attempt the steepest ascent of the trek. The ascent will take around half an hour and one will require multiple halts in between. Make sure you make good use of the trekking pole/s to partially take off the burden off your legs. It is a meandering ascent with large vein-like roots protruding out of the ground—they make for good footholds. There is a short, levelled trail in between where you may catch your breath.
After the ascent, vast meadows with trees and shrubs and boulders pockmarking the scene will greet you and relieve you of the anticipation for an opportunity to plump yourselves down with exhaustion as you reach the campsite. Devsu Thach is a great expanse with tall conifer trees at the beginning followed by a plain grassland near the slopes, overlooking the mountains on the other side. Look for the mules and cows grazing and loafing around with the herdsmen scattered all over. The campsite at Kalkatiyadhar along with the meadow on the top is clearly visible from here. The campsite is ideal for a night trek!
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Trek from Devsu Thatch to Dharkot. Drive from Dharkot to Kotgaon.
Trek Distance: 10.3 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours
Altitude Change: 9,878 ft to 8,265 ft
Difficulty: Moderate | Gradual descent till Gangaad and a steep ascent to Dharkot.
The trail will take you back in time. From here, trace the former trail across the valley till Gangaad. The campsites and villages you have passed will flit across your memory when you recognise them with their little landmarks and quirks. A little ahead is a dhaba . Rest up, rehydrate yourselves, and eat (try omelettes and egg bhurjis). Moving ahead, Gangaad will soon emerge in view.
From Gangaad, take the trail that goes to the left. It's an ascent through the lovely secluded forest section. In no time, you will reach Dharkot - your stay for the night.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
The trail will take you back in time. From here, trace the former trail across the valley till Gangaad. The campsites and villages you have passed will flit across your memory when you recognise them with their little landmarks and quirks. A little ahead is a dhaba . Rest up, rehydrate yourselves, and eat (try omelettes and egg bhurjis). Moving ahead, Gangaad will soon emerge in view.
From Gangaad, take the trail that goes to the left. It's an ascent through the lovely secluded forest section. In no time, you will reach Dharkot - your stay for the night.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Drive from Kotgaon to Dehradun.
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours
Clear your rentals and merchandise, and drive back to Dehradun. Since this is your last day as a team, talk and express gratitude towards one another.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
Clear your rentals and merchandise, and drive back to Dehradun. Since this is your last day as a team, talk and express gratitude towards one another.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Har Ki Dun Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 37 km in five trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,500 ft (6,400 ft to 11,600 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. Most days involve longer trekking durations.
The Terrain:
The Har Ki Dun trail follows the Thamsa River almost entirely, with streams and rivers accompanying you throughout. While wooden or cement bridges aid crossings, they’re sometimes washed away, requiring a rope and pulley system to get across.
You negotiate a steep ascent on the way to Kalkatiyadhar from Gangaad. You will also need to walk on a ledge and multiple boulder sections on this stretch.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
If you’re trekking to Har Ki Dun in winter (December), and the year’s winter snow has already come in, expect to start seeing snow as soon as you enter the trail (sometimes even from Taluka).
Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can significantly alter the dynamics of a trek. Rain can turn the trails slushy and difficult to navigate safely, while snowfall can block previously established paths, requiring new tracks to be carved through the snow. Accumulation of snow can make certain parts of the Har ki Dun Valley completely inaccessible.
Kotgaon is one of our coldest base villages. Its unique location keeps Kotgaon in shade for a very long time even after sunrise, as a hill blocks the first light of the day.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The Har Ki Dun trek starts at 6,900 ft and climbs to 11,600 ft. You may feel that the trek does not climb very high. However, you must not overlook the fact that you reach as high as 10,032 on the second day of the trek at Kalkathiyadhar.
The Har Ki Dun trek also has long distances to cover every day making it a bit tiring for someone who is not adequately prepared. For these reasons you may be prone to Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS).
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
Har Ki Dun trek has only one exit which is retracing your way back to Taluka and Kotgaon.
From Taluka, you can hire a jeep to Purola. Evacuation may take up to 24 hours since you are deep in the valley and the roads connecting Kotgaon and Purola are notoriously bad.
Closest Hospital to the Har Ki Dun Trek:
For mild medical issues, the closest medical assistance can be found in Mori and then in Purola. This includes simple fractures, sprains, etc. However, for major medical emergencies, the nearest hospital is in Mussoorie or Dehradun – which is almost 8-9 hours away from the base camp of the trek.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Har Ki Dun Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
One of the best things about Har Ki Dun Trek is that it can be done almost seven months in a year.
Starting in the spring month of March, you can trek through the summer until late June. Then the monsoon arrives, shutting down the Govind Pashu Vihar Sanctuary for about 3 months.
Thereafter the trekking season resumes in September continuing till the end of November. The heavy snow-laden trail thereafter makes it impossible to trek for the rest of the winter until later in Spring. The forest department of Uttarakhand also shuts the Har Ki Dun trek for visitors post-December until mid-March.
Watch this video to know more about the best time to trek and how the trek looks during different seasons-
Har Ki Dun trek in Spring/Summer (March to June)
Day time: Between 18 °C and 24 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 3 °C and 8 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find any snow in the summer season.
No. of warm layers required: 2 warm layers.
The trek opens in mid-March. In March, you’ll see the valley covered in patches of snow. Especially starting from Kalkatiyadhar to Devsu Thatch.
The snow patches are remnants of the winter gone by. The reason for the snow this late in the season is that the valleys leading to Har Ki Dun are narrow.
As you head into the summer months of April and May, the snow melts the few grasslands along the trail and starts turning brown and then green. April and May are also Spring which sees an abundance of flowers blooming in the woods and the meadows.
If there is a popular season then March to June is the best time to do the Har Ki Dun trek.
But as the monsoon month draws closer, rains start getting more frequent in the valley. Frequent showers starting in late May turn the valley greener and greener in late June.
The trek then closes for the monsoon season.
Har Ki Dun trek in Autumn/Winter (September to November)
Day time: Between 8 °C and 10 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -5 °C.
Presence of snow: There are high chances of witnessing the first snowfall of the winter season either during the end of October or in the month of November.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers.
It is in September that the valley reopens again for the trekkers.
There are lesser people on the trail as compared to the spring and summer. The views are equally spectacular.
If you’re someone looking for solitude then September to December is the best time to do Har Ki Dun.
In September you’ll notice the monsoons have turned the valley into a lush green. The air is also clearer offering you a better view of the surrounding landscapes.
As autumn arrives, the temperatures start dropping and there is a crisp chill in the air. You’ll observe the high mountain peaks experiencing the odd snowfall or two.
But down in the valley, the greens start turning to a shade of brown until they’re golden in October and November.
The valley experiences its first snowfall usually in mid-December. It is a wonderful feeling to experience the first snowfall of the season.
Making snowmen and having snowball fights is something that trekkers cherish and remember for a long time.
At Indiahikes, we wind up the trek for the year by the end of November.
Beyond November, the snowfall gets heavy and tends to accumulate up to several feet. This blocks the trail to campsites beyond Kalkathiyadhar and it is virtually impossible to complete the trek.
The forest department of Uttarakhand also shuts the Har Ki Dun trek for visitors post-December until mid-March during the migration of animals in the Govind Pashu Vihar National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Har ki Dun Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Kotgaon is the base camp of the Har ki Dun Trek.
Kotgaon is a picturesque village situated in the Mori Tehsil of the Uttarkashi district in Uttarakhand, India. Nestled in the upper Tons Valley, it offers stunning views of the surrounding Himalayan peaks, including the Swargarohini range. It is around 200 km from Dehradun and takes around 10 hours to reach by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 6.30 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
How to reach Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities.
The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Kotgaon the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Kotgaon on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Kotgaon. You first need to reach Mori or Sankri and then take a shared jeep to Kotgaon.
Option 1: Dehradun to Sankri and Onwards to Kotgaon
There are three direct bus services from Dehradun to Sankri
The Private Buses depart at 5 AM and 6 AM while the Government Bus leaves Dehradun at 8 AM
Please note that all of them start from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 8-9 hrs to reach Sankri from Dehradun
From Sankri, it is just 5 km to Kotgaon. Even if you don’t get shared jeeps, you can hire private taxis to reach Kotgaon, without burning a hole in your pocket.
Option 2: Dehradun to Mori and Onwards to Kotgaon
There is one direct bus service from Dehradun to Mori
The Bus starts at 9 AM from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 6-7 hrs to reach Mori from Dehradun
From Mori, you get shared vehicles to Kotgaon. You can also hire a private taxi.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Har Ki Dun Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack on the Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Har Ki Dun Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Har Ki Dun Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Har Ki Dun Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get Your Questions Answered Here
toggle accordion
What will the pick up point be? How is travel arranged? expand accordion
Indiahikes will organise transport to and from Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun, and the base camp at Kotgaon on the first day of the trek. This will be in 5-6 seater vehicles. The cost of each vehicle transport one way is Rs 6000. A 10-12 seater vehicle costs Rs 9,000 one way. It will be shared among co trekkers in the same vehicle.
How do I prepare for the trek, it is my first trek. What is the difficulty level? expand accordion
Har Ki Dun is considered a moderate trek. This is because the distance covered on most days is long, an average of around 10 km. Also, the trek itself is 8 days which makes it very tiring. It is a good trek for fit first-timers. You need to make sure you are physically fit to walk 10 km on average in the mountains.
You will need at least 4 weeks of good preparation for this trek. You can begin preparation by going for brisk walks and then doing brisk jogs to improve your cardio. Your target should be to cover 5 km in 35 minutes comfortably by the start of the trek.
What do I need to bring on the trek, and what can I rent with Indiahikes? expand accordion
You will need to bring everything mentioned on the things to take tab. We have trek poles, shoes, backpacks and padded jackets on rent.
All rental gear needs to be booked and paid for online on your dashboard. It will be provided to you at the base camp before you begin the trek.
How to reach the pick up point, that is Dehradun? Any hotels you recommend? expand accordion
Dehradun is connected by air to most major cities in India. You can either fly directly to Dehradun and spend the night before the pickup. Another option is to fly to Delhi and take an overnight train the Nanda Devi Express (Kota SSN Express) to Dehradun. Do not take the Mussoorie express as it is always late.
You can look at Hotel Drona and Hotel Grand. They are both close to the railway station as well.
Is Cloakroom facility available on the Har Ki Dun trek? expand accordion
For your Har Ki Dun Trek , you have the opportunity to drop your luggage at the base camp for the duration of the trek.
At the end of the trek, the cloak room belongings can be picked up at the base camp on your return.
Please do ensure that you do not leave valuable belongings in our cloak room facility. If you do so, do inform our staff so that they can take the necessary precautions to keep it safe.
Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage. (The luggage could be a backpack / suitcase / duffel bag or anything similar.).
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Har ki Dun trek is Rs 2,000 for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Will there be electricity at the campsite/s on the trek? expand accordion
Kotgaon are the last points that are electrically connected. However, the electricity is extremely intermittent and can be absent for the most part of the day during winter/late summer (when the monsoon starts to set in).
So, we strongly encourage you to bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Where will I find ATMs on the trek? expand accordion
The last ATM en route to the base camp is in Mori. Mori has an SBI bank with an ATM attached to it. However, the ATM has been found to be empty of cash many times.
In such a case, you may head out to an SBI authorized cash withdrawal center. You can swipe your card and get cash from the person servicing the desk. This center is located on the first floor, two buildings to the right of SBI.
Although Mori has this possibility, we strongly encourage trekkers to bring cash or to withdraw cash from the 3 ATMs available in Purola (SBC, ICICI and Axis Bank ATMs).
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.