Kanamo Peak Trek 2026 | Spiti’s Trekkable Summit at 19,553 ft Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Kanamo Peak
A High Summit Climb in the Heart of Spiti
We've announced 2026 dates for Kanamo Peak trek. Scroll down to view dates.
If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click here to request a callback.
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Manali : Arrive at the Indiahikes Jungle Line campus — tucked inside dense deodar forests and apple orchards in the silent outskirts of Manali.
The Thrilling Drive Across Spiti: From the dramatic drive across Rohtang and Kunzum La, to travelling past the villages of Hikkim, Langza, and Komic, just the drive to your trek base is among the most iconic Spiti experiences.
Stand Higher Than All of Europe: At 19,553 ft, Kanamo rises higher than every peak in Europe. Yet, it requires no technical skills. It is one of the highest trekkable summits in India.
360 Degree Views from the Summit : Stand amid sweeping views of 35 major peaks across Ladakh, Spiti, Kullu, and Kinnaur. On clear days, even Parang La and Pin Parvati Pass appear on the Eastern horizon.
Experience the Real Spiti: Start your trek from Kibber — mud-brick homes, monasteries, snow leopard country. As remote and authentic as Spiti gets.
A High Summit Climb in the Heart of Spiti
There is a certain glamour in a trekkable peak that touches an altitude that most mountaineers climb in. A trekkable peak, after all, does not require any mountaineering skill. It can be climbed if you are properly acclimatised. Many trekkers flock to Stok Kangri – around 20,190 ft – for this very hunger for altitude. However, not many people know that there is another, lesser-known peak that rises to almost the same altitude – the Kanamo Peak (19,600 ft).
The Kanamo Peak looms behind Kibber and Tashi Gang villages, hidden away at the heart of Spiti. This is a region of Spiti that is still untouched by modernity, unperturbed by civilization. Which makes this trek quieter, prettier and an equally challenging alternative to Stok Kangri. Stok Kangri has been unfortunately commercialised.
play video
Now, while Kanamo Peak is a trekkable summit, it is by no means easy. A high order of physical fitness is necessary because this trek is an endurance test. It is a relentless climb over scree, boulder and moraine from Kanamo base camp to the summit. And at that altitude, just putting one step ahead is an effort. On the summit day, you not only have to ascend 4,500 ft to the peak, but you also need to descend back to basecamp on the same day. That takes almost 12-14 hours, covering around 10 km of trekking through arduous terrain. This trek is for the strongest, fittest and experienced trekkers.
Read more
expand overview
Now, while Kanamo Peak is a trekkable summit, it is by no means easy. A high order of physical fitness is necessary because this trek is an endurance test. It is a relentless climb over scree, boulder and moraine from Kanamo base camp to the summit. And at that altitude, just putting one step ahead is an effort. On the summit day, you not only have to ascend 4,500 ft to the peak, but you also need to descend back to basecamp on the same day. That takes almost 12-14 hours, covering around 10 km of trekking through arduous terrain. This trek is for the strongest, fittest and experienced trekkers.
However, the fruit of this hard and adventurous climb is wondrous. At the summit, you see a view that is something you see out of an airline. Standing at what seems like the top of the world, you see over 35 other summits from Ladakh, Spiti, Kullu and Kinnaur. It is a 360-degree view of equally high mountains. The Shilla Peak, Kanamo’s sister peak is so close, you can almost reach out and feel it. Standing on top of this summit is a gift.
5 Things We Love About the Kanamo Peak Trek
1) A Thrilling Summit Climb
Summit day on Kanamo is an adventure from the first step. You start before dawn, navigating a barren, scree-laden trail in silence. The higher you go, the more demanding the terrain becomes — loose rocks, steep humps, and no water sources. Yet, every bit of the effort feels worth it when the world opens up around you at the summit. Few treks offer such a raw, expedition-like experience.
2) Touching 19,000 ft
Kanamo stands at 19,553 ft, and yet it doesn’t require mountaineering skills to summit. That makes it a rare opportunity for seasoned trekkers to push their limits. You begin from Kibber at 14,000+ ft and gain altitude quickly. It requires strong fitness and acclimatisation. For those up to the challenge, it’s an immensely satisfying climb.
3) Spectacular Views from the Top
The view from Kanamo’s summit is among the finest you’ll see on any Himalayan trek. Over 60 towering peaks spread out in every direction — including Indrasan, Kalanag, Papsura and Shilla Peak, which feels close enough to touch. It’s a full 360° panorama, with every ridge and summit laid bare. A reward that lingers long after the descent.
4) Clear Skies in a High-Altitude Desert
Kanamo lies in the Spiti region, well within the rain-shadow of the Himalayas. This means consistently dry and clear weather through the trekking season — a huge advantage for summit success. With little cloud cover, you get vast, sweeping views every day of the trek.
5) A Journey Through Remote Spiti
Trekking Kanamo also means immersing yourself in one of the most isolated regions of the Himalayas. The drive through Rohtang and Kunzum passes is dramatic, with scenery shifting from green to stark brown in hours. Around Kaza, you can visit villages like Hikkim, Langza, and Komic, or head to the serene Chandratal Lake. Spiti’s raw beauty and quiet charm elevate this trek far beyond just the climb.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Kanamo Peak : Take on the thrilling journey to Kanamo Peak, deep amidst the wild heart of Spiti, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Manali: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
Kibber : Experience the rich culture of Spiti by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from lunch at Manali on Day 1 to breakfast at Kanamo Basecamp on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is Rs. 2400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way from Manali to Kibber. This translates to Rs. 4800 (additional 5% GST) both ways. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, on the Kanamo Peak Trek, you will be trekking in and out of a single campsite. So, anyway, you will only be carrying your Day Packs and won't feel the need to offload.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Kanamo Peak Trek - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Kanamo Peak trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get Your Trek Plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at Manali
Pick Up Point and Time: Beas Bridge, Manali at 3 PM
Pick-up will be arranged from Beas Bridge, Manali to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at 3 pm. Collect your rentals, sort out the cloakroom and attend a detailed trek briefing.
Day 2
Drive from Manali to Kibber
Drive Distance: 180 km | Drive Duration: 7 hrs | Altitude Gain: 6,000 ft to 13,500 ft
Embark on a scenic drive to Kibber, crossing the iconic Atal Tunnel and passing through the picturesque high altitude landscape of Spiti. The route winds alongside the majestic Chenab River, cutting through the stark and stunning cold desert landscapes of the Lahaul-Spiti region.
The cost is Rs. 2400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way from Manali to Kibber. The pick-up from Beas Bridge is included in this cost. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 3
Acclimatisation Day at Kibber
Kibber is a beautiful little hamlet at the heart of Spiti. Take a short day-hike, visit the Chicham Bridge or just delve into the local culture of this remote Himalayan region. This day is meant for you to relax and allow your body to acclimatise to the high altitude. So make sure that you hydrate well and do not exert yourself too much.
Day 4
Trek to Kanamo Basecamp
Trek Distance: 5.5 km | Trek Duration: 6 hrs | Altitude Gain: 13,500 ft to 15,850 ft
Day 5
Acclimatisation Day at Kanamo Basecamp
Use the day to rest and acclimatise to the high altitude environment. The Technical Team will also be conducting sessions to prepare you fully for the strenuous summit push on the next day.
Day 6
Trek to Kanamo Peak. Back to Kanamo Basecamp.
Trek Distance: 11 km | Trek Duration: 12 hrs | Altitude Change: 15,850 ft to 19,500 ft
Summit push will start early, in pitch darkness to be able to reach the summit by Sunrise. After spending some time there, return to basecamp.
Day 7
Trek from Kanamo Basecamp to Kibber. Drive to Manali.
Trek Distance: 5.5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hrs | Altitude Loss: 15,850 ft to 13,500 ft
Drive Distance: 180 km | Drive Duration: 7 hrs | Drop-off Time: 8 PM | Drop-Off Point: Beas Bridge, Manali
Trek to the roadhead at Kibber and drive back to Manali. Return your rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage from Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus before heading to Beas Bridge , where you’ll be dropped off.
The cost of transfer is Rs. 2400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way from Kibber to Manali. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Registration Process for Difficult Treks
We label a trek as difficult only when they have certain extra-ordinary challenges that you wouldn't otherwise find in the rest of our treks. This could be long days of strenuous climbing, a narrow ridge, a nerve-wracking ledgewalk, a glacier traverse or the altitude that a trek climbs to. Safety requirements on such treks require you to be extremely fit and also have prior experience of Himalayan Treks. So the registration process for our Difficult Treks is different from other treks. Please read the steps below carefully:
You must fill a mandatory fitness questionnaire before your slot can be confirmed or payment can be made. This questionnaire will be sent to your email after you start registration. If you don't find it in your inbox, please check your spam folder as well.
You must submit the questionnaire along with a fitness proof of completing 5 km in 30 minutes. This is the minimum requirement for your registration to go through. You are then expected to build up to 10 km in 60–65 minutes before your trek actually starts.
Both the questionnaire and fitness screenshot must be submitted together. Please do not send the questionnaire if you do not have the run screenshot.
You can take upto 48 hours from receiving the questionnaire to fill it up, record your run and get back to us.
Once your submission is approved, you will be allowed to make payment and confirm your booking.
If you haven’t received the questionnaire within a few minutes of starting your registration, please check your spam folder. Still can’t find it ? Reach out to us at [email protected] .
How Does Each Day Look
Complete Day-wise Guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at Manali
Reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, a lively community campus, exclusively for Indiahikes trekkers. Stay in comfortable Swiss tents set in this quiet corner amidst the mountains. At the centre of this campus is the Urjino Café, a warm, welcoming space where trekkers gather, chat, play games, or just enjoy a quiet cup of tea. The whole setup is designed to help you connect with people, with nature and even with your own self.
Settle in and have a hot lunch. After that, go through the safety check-in. This is especially important here. The Kanamo Peak Trek climbs higher than any other Indiahikes trek. So vitals and fitness are checked carefully to make sure you’re ready.
Pick up rental gear, if needed. Drop any extra luggage in the cloakroom. And then attend a detailed trek briefing. Your Trek Leader will take you through the route, what to expect on the trail, and how to acclimatise well over the next two days. This is one of the most crucial parts of your trek. How well you acclimatise now will decide how strong you feel later.
Read More
Reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, a lively community campus, exclusively for Indiahikes trekkers. Stay in comfortable Swiss tents set in this quiet corner amidst the mountains. At the centre of this campus is the Urjino Café, a warm, welcoming space where trekkers gather, chat, play games, or just enjoy a quiet cup of tea. The whole setup is designed to help you connect with people, with nature and even with your own self.
Settle in and have a hot lunch. After that, go through the safety check-in. This is especially important here. The Kanamo Peak Trek climbs higher than any other Indiahikes trek. So vitals and fitness are checked carefully to make sure you’re ready.
Pick up rental gear, if needed. Drop any extra luggage in the cloakroom. And then attend a detailed trek briefing. Your Trek Leader will take you through the route, what to expect on the trail, and how to acclimatise well over the next two days. This is one of the most crucial parts of your trek. How well you acclimatise now will decide how strong you feel later.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Drive from Manali to Kibber
Drive Distance: 180 km | Drive Duration: 7 hrs
Altitude Gain: 6,000 ft to 13,500 ft
Drive out of Manali, and towards Batal via Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh Highway. The road is not too good and is bumpy all through. From Batal the route winds through the real Spiti Valley. Quaint little village tucked away in the mountains and arid landscapes dotted with green and yellow patches of peas and barley fields greet you. The route from here is straight out of a picture postcard. A hotel or homestay will be arranged for you at Kaza. The acclimatization process starts today.
Read More
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Drive out of Manali, and towards Batal via Atal Tunnel on the Manali-Leh Highway. The road is not too good and is bumpy all through. From Batal the route winds through the real Spiti Valley. Quaint little village tucked away in the mountains and arid landscapes dotted with green and yellow patches of peas and barley fields greet you. The route from here is straight out of a picture postcard. A hotel or homestay will be arranged for you at Kaza. The acclimatization process starts today.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Acclimatisation day at Kibber
Kibber is a beautiful little hamlet at the heart of Spiti. Take a short day-hike, visit the Chicham Bridge or just delve into the local culture of this remote Himalayan region. This day is meant for you to relax and allow your body to acclimatise to the high altitude. So make sure that you hydrate well and do not exert yourself too much.
Read More
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Kibber is a beautiful little hamlet at the heart of Spiti. Take a short day-hike, visit the Chicham Bridge or just delve into the local culture of this remote Himalayan region. This day is meant for you to relax and allow your body to acclimatise to the high altitude. So make sure that you hydrate well and do not exert yourself too much.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Kibber to Kanamo Base Camp
Trek Distance: 5.5 km | Trek Duration: 6 hrs
Altitude Gain: 13,500 ft to 15,850 ft
Difficulty: Easy to moderate. Steep ascent for the first 3-4 hours after which the trail evens out into a level walk for a short while before ascending gradually.
Water Source: Carry 2 litres of water from Kibber. You can refill your water bottles at a lake, about an hour before reaching Kanamo base camp.
The day starts with a trek to the Kanamo base camp. The trek from Kibber to Kanamo base camp is a continuous ascent for about 6 – 7 hours, as the trail winds through rocky slopes, grass and desert mountain valleys. You gain an altitude of more than 1,640 ft today. Starting with a steep ascent for the first 3-4 hours, the trail evens out a little thereafter. There is some level walk and then a gradual ascent again. Initially, soon after leaving the village, you cross numerous fields growing green peas. If it is the harvest season, you will even be offered delicious fresh peas by the locals. On the way, you pass two lakes, one of which supplies water to Kaza town. The last 2 hours of the trek are particularly picturesque with smaller varieties of Brahma Kamal and multiple types of flowers strewn all over.
Look out for interesting stones in this stretch as many of them are likely to be plant or animal fossils. The trek guides know to identify these if you have not seen one earlier. Within a radius of about 1 km from the Kanamo base camp, you will spot repositories of fossils of all types.
Read More
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
The day starts with a trek to the Kanamo base camp. The trek from Kibber to Kanamo base camp is a continuous ascent for about 6 – 7 hours, as the trail winds through rocky slopes, grass and desert mountain valleys. You gain an altitude of more than 1,640 ft today. Starting with a steep ascent for the first 3-4 hours, the trail evens out a little thereafter. There is some level walk and then a gradual ascent again. Initially, soon after leaving the village, you cross numerous fields growing green peas. If it is the harvest season, you will even be offered delicious fresh peas by the locals. On the way, you pass two lakes, one of which supplies water to Kaza town. The last 2 hours of the trek are particularly picturesque with smaller varieties of Brahma Kamal and multiple types of flowers strewn all over.
Look out for interesting stones in this stretch as many of them are likely to be plant or animal fossils. The trek guides know to identify these if you have not seen one earlier. Within a radius of about 1 km from the Kanamo base camp, you will spot repositories of fossils of all types.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Acclimatisation day at Kanamo Base Camp
You will be climbing over 19,000 ft the next day and the summit push shall start very early. So this rest day is crucial for your body to recover and then be ready for the upcoming exertion. The Technical Team will also get you up to speed for all that you need to know regarding the summit push.
Read More
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
You will be climbing over 19,000 ft the next day and the summit push shall start very early. So this rest day is crucial for your body to recover and then be ready for the upcoming exertion. The Technical Team will also get you up to speed for all that you need to know regarding the summit push.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Kanamo Base Camp to Kanamo Peak and back to Kanamo Base Camp
Trek Distance: 11 km | Trek Duration: 12 hrs
Altitude Change: 15,850 ft to 19,500 ft and back to 15,850 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. Continuous ascent to the peak, with the last 4 hours of climbing on a steep incline completely on scree. 2.5-3 hours of descent to return.
Water Source: None. Carry at least 2-3 litres of water from the base camp.
The summit attempt starts as early as 2:00 am. You cross the first shoulder in the mountain at dawn. Look out for the far off mountain ranges, divine in the sky's changing colours. Soon you will be heading towards the second shoulder in the mountain. It gets increasingly cold and the wind bites. The balaclava is a must at this altitude since the early morning breeze is ice cold. This walk of about 4 to 5 hours, is the last leg of the climb – a steep ascent of about 80 degrees on the scree slopes. The entire ascent is on scree from here. It is easy to slip down each time you take a step up. Small steps would be difficult to maintain, so make sure to take large strides to navigate the scree. If you find the last leg of the hike very difficult, be sure to take help from a guide, to avoid a fall. A four-hour climb leads to the summit.
The view from the top is breathtaking. An astounding 360-degree view of the greater Himalayas is the best reward for the tough climb. One can see the Parang La pass leading to Ladakh, Pin Parvati pass leading to Kullu valley, ranges of Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti from the summit. At the back side of the peak is a huge glacier. Kanamo is actually a twin peak with its sister peak, Shila, next to it. Surprisingly, Shila is generally covered with snow, whereas you see only a small patch of snow on the Kanamo summit.
The descent takes about 2.5- 3 hours.
Read More
The summit attempt starts as early as 2:00 am. You cross the first shoulder in the mountain at dawn. Look out for the far off mountain ranges, divine in the sky's changing colours. Soon you will be heading towards the second shoulder in the mountain. It gets increasingly cold and the wind bites. The balaclava is a must at this altitude since the early morning breeze is ice cold. This walk of about 4 to 5 hours, is the last leg of the climb – a steep ascent of about 80 degrees on the scree slopes. The entire ascent is on scree from here. It is easy to slip down each time you take a step up. Small steps would be difficult to maintain, so make sure to take large strides to navigate the scree. If you find the last leg of the hike very difficult, be sure to take help from a guide, to avoid a fall. A four-hour climb leads to the summit.
The view from the top is breathtaking. An astounding 360-degree view of the greater Himalayas is the best reward for the tough climb. One can see the Parang La pass leading to Ladakh, Pin Parvati pass leading to Kullu valley, ranges of Kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti from the summit. At the back side of the peak is a huge glacier. Kanamo is actually a twin peak with its sister peak, Shila, next to it. Surprisingly, Shila is generally covered with snow, whereas you see only a small patch of snow on the Kanamo summit.
The descent takes about 2.5- 3 hours.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Trek to Kibber from Kanamo Basecamp. Drive to Manali.
Trek Distance: 5.5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hrs | Altitude Loss: 15,850 ft to 13,500 ft
Drive Distance: 180 km | Drive Duration: 7 hrs | Drop-off Time: 7 PM | Drop-Off Point: Beas Bridge, Manali
Trek to the roadhead at Kibber and drive back to Manali. Return your rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage from Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus before heading to Beas Bridge, where you’ll be dropped off.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
Trek to the roadhead at Kibber and drive back to Manali. Return your rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage from Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus before heading to Beas Bridge, where you’ll be dropped off.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Kanamo Peak Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 22 km in three trekking days. You gain around 6000 ft (13,500 ft to 19,500 ft), every day will include steep ascents and descents on uneven trails, boulder sections with scree and moraine.
Terrain:
At 15,000 ft above sea-level, there is no vegetation cover and you'll be trekking continuously in open landscape. This makes you susceptible to heat exhaustion if you aren't hydrating well.
A high order of physical fitness is necessary because this trek is an endurance test. It is a relentless climb over scree, boulder and moraine from Kanamo base camp to the summit. And at that altitude, just putting one step ahead is an effort.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
On a sunny day, the direct exposure to harsh sunlight makes you susceptible to Heat Exhaustion.
On a windy day, the strong winds will make you feel bitterly cold. These strong winds are especially possible near the glaciers. Layer up well and carry wind cheaters to beat this wind chill.
Rains can make the boulder sections slippery and unsafe to navigate. Your Trek Leader may take a call on avoiding such sections altogether in such cases.
If you face rain, it will likely come with hails. Please be prepared to find shelter in such cases as getting hit by hails can be painful. The best option is to make a beeline for the nearest campsite.
Prolonged rainfall can flood campsites or make the trails too unstable to walk safely on. You may have to return prematurely from the trek in such cases.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The Kanamo Peak Trek begins at a high altitude of 13,500 ft, and climbs further till 19,500 ft. This is the highest we go on any trek in India. Starting this high and ascending even more puts you at risk of altitude sickness, especially in the first couple of days.
On the summit day, you not only have to ascend 4,500 ft to the peak, but you also need to descend back to basecamp on the same day. That takes almost 12-14 hours, covering around 10 km of trekking through arduous terrain.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The Kanamo Peak Trek has limited exit points. In case of an emergency, you need to retrace your way back to Kibber and further to Manali. If it is an AMS case, you need to drive immediately towards Manali since even Kibber is at an altitude of above 10,000 ft.
Closest Hospital to the Kanamo Peak Trek:
The closest hospital to the Kanamo peak trek is at Kibber, which houses a Primary Health Care Centre. For more serious requirements, drive back to Manali (drive distance: 180 km, drive duration: 6 hrs approximately).
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Kanamo Peak Trek
Time Your Trek Well
toggle accordion
The Kanamo Peak Trek in July-August
The Kanamo Peak Trek climbs to well beyond 19,000 ft. It starts from Kibber, a remote village in Spiti that itself sits at around 13,500 ft. That’s why the monsoon and post-monsoon months — from late July to mid-October — are the best time to do this trek. Since Spiti lies in the rain shadow of the Pir Panjal range, you don’t face heavy rains like in other parts of Himachal during this season.
After mid-October, temperatures drop sharply and water sources begin to dry up. Once the snow starts to set in, the entire region gets cut off until the next summer. That’s why we don’t recommend attempting this trek too late in the season.
How to Plan Your Travel for Kanamo Peak Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Your trek to Kanamo Peak begins right from the heart of Manali . The most prominent town in the Kullu District of Himachal Pradesh, Manali needs no introduction for a trekker.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 11 am from Beas Bridge in Manali .
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Manali:
Manali is easily accessible by road from Delhi and Chandigarh . However, the stretch beyond Mandi on NH-3 is prone to frequent landslides, often leading to delays. Keep this in mind while planning your journey.
The easiest way to reach the Manali is to:
Fly to Delhi , take a direct bus from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Manali
Fly to Chandigarh , take a direct bus from Chandigarh to Manali .
Flight options to reach Manali:
Pro Tip: If the flights to Chandigarh are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Manali. Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Chandigarh. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Chandigarh is less than Rs 1000, then book for Chandigarh. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus in Sarsai
From Manali-
Sarsai is 15 km from the main center of Manali on the Kullu-Naggar-Manali Road. From the Sarsai Bus Stand , it is just a 10-15 minute walk to the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus .
By Auto or Private Cab: Fare ranges between Rs.500 to Rs.1000
By Public Bus: Buses leave for Naggar from Manali Bus Stand every 30 minutes. They pass via Sarsai.
Please Note: Buses from Delhi or Chandigarh drop you at the Manali Private/Volvo Bus Stand. The local bus to Sarsai leaves from the Manali Local Bus Stand, 1.5 km away. You can walk or take an auto to reach the local bus stand.
From Delhi/Chandigarh-
Option 1: Get down at Kullu and take the Local Kullu-Manali Bus to Sarsai
Take any bus to Manali from Delhi / Chandigarh
Get down at Kullu Bus Stand instead of going all the way to Manali
Local Buses run regularly from Kullu to Manali via Sarsai. Take this bus and get down at Sarsai
From the Sarsai Bus Stand , it is just a 10-15 minute walk to the Indiahikes Campus
Option 2: Get down at 15-Mile and take a Cab to Sarsai
Take any bus to Manali from Delhi / Chandigarh
Get down at the 15 Mile Bus Stop instead of going all the way to Manali
Hire a cab for the 12 km journey to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus
Secret Travel Tip: From the 15-Mile Bus Stand, a wooden bridge over the Beas River leads into the Batahar Bihal Forest. The Indiahikes Campus is just a 3-km scenic walk through these deodar forests and apple orchards. If you are travelling in September or October, you’ll see apple trees laden with fruit.
Before you take this hike, stop by The Cafe House for carrot cakes and trout fish grills.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Kanamo Peak Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centres and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Kanamo Peak Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kanamo Peak Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Kanamo Peak Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kanamo Peak Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that. If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What is the best way to reach Manali? expand accordion
There are overnight buses from Delhi and Chandigarh to Manali. It takes 10 to 12 hours for the bus from Delhi to reach Manali. The journey from Chandigarh is considerably shorter and takes around 6-8 hours. So the best way to get there would be to fly to Chandigarh / Delhi and take a bus to Manali.
Is it safe in Manali? expand accordion
Yes, Manali is a safe hill station to be in because it is a popular tourist destination, buzzing with people from various nationalities almost throughout the year. You will find a range of hotels (for all budgets), cafes, and eateries popping up at every turn.
How fit do I need to be for the Kanamo Peak Trek? expand accordion
A high-altitude trek like Kanamo Peak requires a good fitness level. The trek has long, arduous walks over scree and moraine. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 10 km in 60 minutes before your trek.
Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 40 km a week or 150 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How many trekkers are in a single group? expand accordion
On the Kanamo Peak Trek, we usually take around 20- 23 trekkers in total. But the batch size will be limited to 15 members for the Pilot Groups.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Kanamo Peak Trek? expand accordion
Manali and Kaza (in Himachal Pradesh) are the last places where you’ll get a mobile network and internet connection. You won’t find any network on the Kanamo Peak Trek. There is no electricity throughout the trek as well. The only place you’ll find a plug to charge your phone or camera batteries will be at Kibber before and after the trek.
Therefore use your electronic equipment wisely. Fully charge your batteries before leaving your hotel in Manali and use your electronic equipment minimally.
Note: Cold temperatures drain the batteries faster. Having extra batteries or power banks helps.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.