Kashmir Great Lakes Trek 2026 | India’s Most Beautiful Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
The Most Beautiful Trek In India
We have called off this trek for 2026. Consider the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek instead.
With grand meadows and a dramatic crossover to Spiti, we rank Pin Bhaba among our Top 3 Treks of All Time. View the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
The Most Beautiful Trek In India
Kashmir Great Lakes is one of the most beautiful treks in India. No question. It validates Kashmir’s mythical status as heaven on earth.
This is because the trek is set on a canvas that’s larger than life. It is situated 75 km northeast of Srinagar. Every day is a 360° panorama of wild, rugged mountains, rolling meadows, and turquoise alpine lakes. And you get more than six of these lakes and five very different valleys to explore!
play video
The range of landscape makes it a moderate-difficult trek spanning over six days. This means it has long trekking days with steep ascents and descents with no easy exit points. So, it’s not meant for a beginner who hasn’t been exposed to high-altitude treks.
Read more
expand overview
The range of landscape makes it a moderate-difficult trek spanning over six days. This means it has long trekking days with steep ascents and descents with no easy exit points. So, it’s not meant for a beginner who hasn’t been exposed to high-altitude treks.
Having said that, the challenges are worth it. Each day is postcard-perfect, with a new alpine lake to look forward to. What makes these lakes even prettier are the snow patches that feed these lakes. You see them sliding off the serrated mountains into the lakes. Sometimes you’ll see milky white icebergs floating on the lake’s inky blue surface.
And then there are meadows of Kashmir. These meadows come in every shape and size, sometimes many in a day.
After this trek, every other trek feels as though it is a movie on a small screen. Kashmir Great Lakes, however, is an IMAX 3D experience – such is the grandeur of the trek. If you have not done this trek, put it on your bucket list!
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Kashmir Great Lakes : Explore the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek, arguably the most beautiful trek in India, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Gagangir: Experience the rich culture of Kashmir over your stay at an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Gagangir on Day 1 to lunch at Narang on Day 7 are included.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Srinagar to Gagangir costs Rs 750 per person, which is to be paid directly to the driver by trekkers availing the pick-up. All vehicles are Non-AC.
On Day 7, the drop-off directly to Srinagar from Narang costs Rs 600 per person, which is to be paid directly to the driver by trekkers availing the pick-up. All vehicles are Non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.4800 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Kashmir Great Lakes: Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Kashmir Great Lakes trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick itinerary of Kashmir Great Lakes
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Trek map of the Kashmir Great Lakes trek
Day 1
Drive from Srinagar to Gagangir.
Drive Duration: 3-4 hours | Drive Distance: 83 km | Pick-up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar
Transport will be organised at 10:00 am from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar to Gagangir on Day 2. Each trekker has to pay Rs. 750 per person, in Gagangir (on Day 2), directly to the driver. The vehicle will be non-AC.
You will collect your rentals and submit them to the cloakroom in Gagangir.
Day 2
Drive from Gagangir to Shitkadi. Trek to Nichnai
Trek distance: 11.6 km | Trek duration: 6.5 hours | Altitude gain: 8,150 ft to 11,607 ft
Trek type: Moderate . 3 hours of steep ascent followed by descent for an hour. Final 2 hours, a gentle ascent to Nichnai.
Day 3
Trek from Nichnai to Vishnusar via Nichnai Pass
Trek distance: 13.5 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Altitude gain: 11,607 ft to 12,011 ft via 13,229 ft
Trek type: Moderate . 1.5 hours of gradual ascent followed by an hour-long climb to the pass. A steep descent from the pass for about an hour easing off into a flat walk.
Day 4
Trek from Vishnusar to Gadsar via Gadsar Pass
Trek distance: 16 km | Trek Duration: 7.5 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 12,011 ft to 10,706 ft via 13,715 ft
Trek type: Moderate difficult. 1.5-2 hours of steep ascent followed by 1 hour of steep descent, easing off into level walk.
Day 5
Trek from Gadsar to Satsar
Trek distance: 11.5 km | Trek Duration: 4.5 hours | Altitude gain: 10,706 ft to 11,985 ft
Trek type: Moderate. 1.5 hours of steep ascent followed by a level walk.
Day 6
Trek from Satsar to Gangabal via Zaj Pass
Trek distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude loss: 11,985 ft to 11,486 ft via 13,276 ft
Trek type: Difficult. 30 minutes each of gradual ascent followed by steep ascent for about 45 minutes and then a steep descent. Similarly ascending and descending trail all through.
Day 7
Trek from Gangabal to Naranag. Drive to Srinagar
Trek distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude loss: 11,486 ft to 7,800 ft
Drive Distance: 50 km | Drive Duration: 2 hours
Trek type: Moderate. A mix of ascents and descents for 6 km followed by a very steep descent all the way down. You should reach Srinagar by 5 pm.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important: While returning from Naranag, the checkpost closes at 4pm. Make sure to plan according to this. If stuck, you will personally have to take the help of Indian Army for your stay at night.
Transport will be organised from Naranag to Srinagar. Each trekker has to pay 600 per person, in Srinagar, directly to the driver. The vehicle will be non-AC.
Day 8
Buffer Day
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs 1,800 per day + 5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
IMPORTANT POINTS
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
➤ Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Previous
Next
Drive from Srinagar to Gagangir
Drive Duration: 3-4 hours | Drive Distance: 83 km
Your pick up will be arranged from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar at 10.00 am. It will take around 4 hours to reach Gagangir, the basecamp of the trek.
Your cloakroom, rentals and trek briefing will happen at Gagangir.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
Your pick up will be arranged from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar at 10.00 am. It will take around 4 hours to reach Gagangir, the basecamp of the trek.
Your cloakroom, rentals and trek briefing will happen at Gagangir.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Drive from Gagangir to Shitkadi. Trek to Nichnai
Trek distance: 11.6 km | Duration: 6.5 hours
Altitude gain: 8,150 ft to 11,607 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate. 3 hours of steep ascent followed by descent for an hour. Final 2 hours, a gentle ascent to Nichnai.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water from Sonmarg. You will find sources along the trail to refill your water bottles.
Today you will drive till Shitkadi. The drive will take around half an hour.
The trek starts 3 km out of Sonamarg, on the Srinagar road from a place called as Shitkadi. Exactly at the 3 km mark, you will spot a lone Dhaba on the right. The place sells packaged water, biscuits and other edibles and is your last place to pick up short eats. The next trace of civilization is only at Naranag, where the trek ends. Today's trek consists of a 3 hour ascent followed by a 1 hour descent and finally a gentle 2 hour ascent to Nichnai. A jeep track diverts to the right off the main road at the shop. The track goes down to the level of the Sindh river which flows in between the mud track and the main road. The trekking trail starts along the track but quickly diverts higher up. 10 minutes into the trek, the trail bends left and enters a green meadow. This directly overlooks Sonamarg town.
In half an hour you are at the top of the meadow where Maple and Pine trees start. At the tree line, the trail quickly descends to a tiny brook and then climbs again. What follows next is a lovely dense forest of Maple trees. Walking on the green bed of grass amidst the Maples is an experience unique to Kashmir in India. For the next hour and a half, the trail winds up through the Maple trees. Stick to the trail heading uphill as the one going down heads to some of the nearby villages. The trees give way to clearings in between. Turn around and see the view of the Sonarmarg valley which gets better and fuller as you gain height. The Maple forest ends at the top of the ridge and, on the other side, a meadow gently slopes down. Spend a few moments at the ridge grasping the Sonarmarg view and its neighbouring valley. The streams, the meadows, the pines and the town nestled in them make a wonderful picture.
Read More
Today you will drive till Shitkadi. The drive will take around half an hour.
The trek starts 3 km out of Sonamarg, on the Srinagar road from a place called as Shitkadi. Exactly at the 3 km mark, you will spot a lone Dhaba on the right. The place sells packaged water, biscuits and other edibles and is your last place to pick up short eats. The next trace of civilization is only at Naranag, where the trek ends. Today's trek consists of a 3 hour ascent followed by a 1 hour descent and finally a gentle 2 hour ascent to Nichnai. A jeep track diverts to the right off the main road at the shop. The track goes down to the level of the Sindh river which flows in between the mud track and the main road. The trekking trail starts along the track but quickly diverts higher up. 10 minutes into the trek, the trail bends left and enters a green meadow. This directly overlooks Sonamarg town.
In half an hour you are at the top of the meadow where Maple and Pine trees start. At the tree line, the trail quickly descends to a tiny brook and then climbs again. What follows next is a lovely dense forest of Maple trees. Walking on the green bed of grass amidst the Maples is an experience unique to Kashmir in India. For the next hour and a half, the trail winds up through the Maple trees. Stick to the trail heading uphill as the one going down heads to some of the nearby villages. The trees give way to clearings in between. Turn around and see the view of the Sonarmarg valley which gets better and fuller as you gain height. The Maple forest ends at the top of the ridge and, on the other side, a meadow gently slopes down. Spend a few moments at the ridge grasping the Sonarmarg view and its neighbouring valley. The streams, the meadows, the pines and the town nestled in them make a wonderful picture.
The climb is now over and the trail slopes down into a meadow. The meadow is lined on the left by Silver Birch trees and a few shepherds' huts. The carpet of green rolls down from the trees to the end of the 40 feet wide meadow. Small brooks which cross the meadow serve as water sources. On the right are small peaks with snow powdered tops. This is Shekdur.
Shekdur is a beautiful meadow surrounded by Bhoj trees. Have lunch here before moving ahead to Nichnai. The meadow of Shekdur stretches for half an hour. The gentle descent on the meadow ends in a forest of Bhoj or Silver Birch. Take the trail that goes in the middle of the forest and continues to descend gently. Watch out for the sun rays making their way in between the thick foliage giving out beautiful light and dark rays. In 45 minutes, you reach the end of the Birch trees and the trail goes down and climbs back into a river valley. The river valley is the beginning of Nichnai.
The trail now is along the right bank of the river going upstream. Look behind to see snow-clad peaks from Sonarmarg valley. You are now in a wide valley but enclosed by mountains on either side. The river, which joins the Sindh eventually, flows in speed through the valley. The first 30 minutes is over the rocks and your mules will walk very slowly over here. An hour into the river valley, green patches devoid of rocks open up. The river valley widens and you can see the green meadow widening in between the two mountain ranges. Far ahead lie triangular twin snow-clad peaks. Choose a flat ground to pitch tents and end the first day's trek.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek from Nichnai to Vishnusar via Nichnai Pass
Trek distance: 13.5 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours
Altitude gain: 11,607 ft to 12,011 ft via 13,229 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate. 1.5 hours of gradual ascent followed by an hour-long climb to the pass. A steep descent from the pass for about an hour easing off into a flat walk.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water from Nichnai. You will find sources along the trail to refill your water bottles.
The day's trek is a long walk on meadows with the scenery changing for the better all along. Start by 8:00 am to give yourself enough time en route to enjoy the meadows. Your first milestone for the day is the Nichnai pass or Vishnusar Berry. The pass is visible at a distance from the camp site. It lies just to the right of the twin snow-clad peaks. After half an hour of walking along the river, cross the river to move to its left bank. For the next hour, walk on the left bank. Notice that the trail slowly starts ascending as you traverse through the meadow. The following one hour is a climb to the pass. It is a medium climb to Nichnai pass, 13,500 ft, followed by a small descent followed by a long flat meadow walk ending near Vishnusar Lake. As you climb, notice a small lake at the foot of the mountains. It is a deep blue lake and you can sense your expectations rising with regards to the lake.
The pass is deceptive such that the ridge seen from the meadow below is not the pass. The trail turns inwards twice and only then does the Nichnai pass come up. From the Nichnai pass, observe the Sonamarg valley and the trail you came on. BSNL phone networks tend to work here most of the time. This is the last point on the trek where you get a phone network. The next sign of network is only when you move beyond Gangabal.
The Nichnai pass feels like a wide tunnel. On the left stand a series of snow-clad peaks. There are no peaks on the right but the land raises on the right too. Nichnai pass is at an altitude of 13,229 ft. You are just into your second day of the trek and this, by any standard, is a very fast ascent. It is not uncommon for people to feel the altitude on the climb to Nichnai pass. The good news is that the trail descends from here. The rocky trail descends rapidly. In the next hour, the rocks give way to grass. Red flowers spring out next to your feet. What you see ahead is a wide green meadow stretching for miles with mountains lining the sides. A new river flows down from the pass into the meadow ahead.
Read More
The day's trek is a long walk on meadows with the scenery changing for the better all along. Start by 8:00 am to give yourself enough time en route to enjoy the meadows. Your first milestone for the day is the Nichnai pass or Vishnusar Berry. The pass is visible at a distance from the camp site. It lies just to the right of the twin snow-clad peaks. After half an hour of walking along the river, cross the river to move to its left bank. For the next hour, walk on the left bank. Notice that the trail slowly starts ascending as you traverse through the meadow. The following one hour is a climb to the pass. It is a medium climb to Nichnai pass, 13,500 ft, followed by a small descent followed by a long flat meadow walk ending near Vishnusar Lake. As you climb, notice a small lake at the foot of the mountains. It is a deep blue lake and you can sense your expectations rising with regards to the lake.
The pass is deceptive such that the ridge seen from the meadow below is not the pass. The trail turns inwards twice and only then does the Nichnai pass come up. From the Nichnai pass, observe the Sonamarg valley and the trail you came on. BSNL phone networks tend to work here most of the time. This is the last point on the trek where you get a phone network. The next sign of network is only when you move beyond Gangabal.
The Nichnai pass feels like a wide tunnel. On the left stand a series of snow-clad peaks. There are no peaks on the right but the land raises on the right too. Nichnai pass is at an altitude of 13,229 ft. You are just into your second day of the trek and this, by any standard, is a very fast ascent. It is not uncommon for people to feel the altitude on the climb to Nichnai pass. The good news is that the trail descends from here. The rocky trail descends rapidly. In the next hour, the rocks give way to grass. Red flowers spring out next to your feet. What you see ahead is a wide green meadow stretching for miles with mountains lining the sides. A new river flows down from the pass into the meadow ahead.
Stop here and take a view of the peaks, the river below and the flowery meadow. Notice to your left a big waterfall splashing down the mountain cliff and joining the river. From the waterfall, the rapid descent ends and you are now walking through the flat wide meadow. On the left are the classic snow-clad Himalayan mountains but notice on your right, grey and barren mountains resembling the Ladakh ranges.
Walk along, in between the two ranges, over the lush green carpet of grass. Two main streams flow through the valley. Stick close to the stream on the left. In half an hour, brace yourselves for another stream crossing. The water is icy cold.
Continue in the meadow for an hour and a half until you reach the end of the valley. Another stream flows perpendicularly from your left to your right. This stream originates at the Vishnusar lake which is a bit higher on your left. The lake is not seen yet and cannot be seen from the camp site. Pitch your tents anywhere besides the stream coming from the lake. There is ample camping space.
If you get some time you can explore the twin lakes now.
The Vishnusar lake lies 0.5 km to the left and 100 feet above the camp site. Head left and follow the stream without crossing it. The lake is two mounds away and takes about 7 minutes to reach. The first impression you get on seeing the Vishnusar lake is that it is big. It lies nestled below 4 mountains. The Kishansar peak though 0.5 km away, reflects in the lake. The reflections are wonderful when the lake is still. The colour of the lake depends on the time of the day and the clouds in the sky. Early in the morning, before the sun really shines, expect clear colourless water. The lake starts getting its colours when the sun shines. On a clear sunny morning, the water is absolutely blue. Clouds and the evening sun make it look greenish blue in the later half of the day. Whatever be the colour, the lake looks wonderful and it is worth catching a glimpse of the lake in all its hues.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Trek from Vishnusar to Gadsar via Gadsar Pass
Trek distance: 16 km | Trek Duration: 7.5 hours
Altitude gain and loss: 12,011 ft to 10,706 ft via 13,715 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate difficult. 1.5-2 hours of steep ascent followed by 1 hour of steep descent, easing off into a level walk.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water from Vishnusar. You will find sources along the trail to refill your water bottles.
The next part of the trek is from Kishansar lake side to the top of the ridge. You see a pencil thin line traversing through the mountain side. That is your track to follow. Always stick to the one going higher though any of them will take you to the top. It is an hour and a half climb to the top of the ridge at a moderate pace. 45 minutes into the climb, you will be treated by one of the loveliest views you can ever imagine. Both the Kishansar and Vishnusar lakes, in full view, together.
The view of the twin lakes lasts till you reach the ridge top or the Pass. This is called the Gadsar pass – altitude 13,800 ft – the highest point on this trek. The trek is a steep 2-hour ascent followed by a steep descent followed by a gentle walk in the meadows. On the other side of the Gadsar pass stretches a long valley with 2-3 small lakes visible. Far in the distance lie a series of snow-clad peaks. The peaks lie outside our Line of Control. It is not uncommon to find snow at the Gadsar pass and also in the initial parts of the descent to the other side.
The descent is straightforward. The first small lake that is seen on the left is the Yamsar lake. The locals believe that Lord Yama has some association with the lake! Beyond Yamsar is another nameless lake. An hours descent leads you into flat meadows again. This valley is narrower with two ranges running on either side. Notice the multi-coloured flowers growing up, out of the green grass. It starts with red and moves on to blue and purple Iris flowers.
Read More
The next part of the trek is from Kishansar lake side to the top of the ridge. You see a pencil thin line traversing through the mountain side. That is your track to follow. Always stick to the one going higher though any of them will take you to the top. It is an hour and a half climb to the top of the ridge at a moderate pace. 45 minutes into the climb, you will be treated by one of the loveliest views you can ever imagine. Both the Kishansar and Vishnusar lakes, in full view, together.
The view of the twin lakes lasts till you reach the ridge top or the Pass. This is called the Gadsar pass – altitude 13,800 ft – the highest point on this trek. The trek is a steep 2-hour ascent followed by a steep descent followed by a gentle walk in the meadows. On the other side of the Gadsar pass stretches a long valley with 2-3 small lakes visible. Far in the distance lie a series of snow-clad peaks. The peaks lie outside our Line of Control. It is not uncommon to find snow at the Gadsar pass and also in the initial parts of the descent to the other side.
The descent is straightforward. The first small lake that is seen on the left is the Yamsar lake. The locals believe that Lord Yama has some association with the lake! Beyond Yamsar is another nameless lake. An hours descent leads you into flat meadows again. This valley is narrower with two ranges running on either side. Notice the multi-coloured flowers growing up, out of the green grass. It starts with red and moves on to blue and purple Iris flowers.
When you are in the blue Iris area, you are almost at Gadsar – one of the prettiest and most pristine of the lakes on this trek. Gadsar is at the base of snow-clad cliffs. Blue flowers spring up on one side and snow slabs fall into the lake from the mountain on the other side. Look ahead to see the green-blue valley gently slope down. The Yamsar, the nameless lake and Gadsar are all connected by a stream of water that flows from the higher lake to the lower. Gadsar is again at 12,500 feet.
Choose to make Gadsar your camp site for its sheer beauty but only if you can vow to leave the ground as neat as you found it to be. Usually no one camps at Gadsar. There is a small abandoned army shelter near Gadsar.
If you choose not to camp next to Gadsar, the next place to camp would be the Gadsar army camp. Continue on the downward trail from Gadsar and in half an hour the valley widens up. Spot another blue lake on the left of the valley. Notice the snow clad mountains now give way to lower barren mountains. You have lost considerable altitude again. In another half an hour down the trail, a few shepherds' huts come up. Continue downhill and at the end of the third half hour, the army camp comes up. Gadsar army camp is just a small hut housing 5-8 army men.
To move beyond the army camp, one needs permission from their Headquarters. The Headquarters is 4.8 km further away down into the tree line near a village. The Gadsar camp communicates with the HQ through walkie-talkies. The HQ is equipped with a satellite phone for the army. If you are near the Gadsar army camp, it is best to report to them as soon as possible. It takes 2-3 hours for their green signal to come through. All details of the trekkers and staff, including original identity cards, are recorded, collected and checked.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from Gadsar to Satsar
Trek distance: 11.5 km | Trek Duration: 4.5 hours
Altitude gain: 10,706 ft to 11,985 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate; 1.5 hours of steep ascent followed by a level walk.
Water sources: Carry at least 2 litres of water from Gadsar. You will find rivulets along the trail but the water might not be suitable to drink.
After crossing the stream, take the trail that goes up the mountain. The trail now looks like a typical western ghats trail. The terrain feels very similar. You are just above the tree line. Trees and the river valley are visible below you. The hour and a half long climb takes you up by 1,100 feet. Once beyond the 11,500 feet altitude, the climb graduates to a traverse. The trail bends round to the left and leaves the river valley. You are now walking on a flat trail surrounded by mountains on a meadow. To your right are a few deep craters. This place is called as Maengandob. The landscape ahead is captivating. Isolated mountains stand in front. Towards the right is a small ridge. In between is a flat green bed with a stream flowing through. Choose to camp here if Gadsar lake was your last camp. If the army camp is where you started, it makes sense to cover a little more distance today and camp near the first of the Satsar lakes. Satsar is actually a collection of 7 lakes. You can find 4 or 5 lakes with water, depending on the season. Beyond the ridge, on the right, is the Satsar army check post. It is the 3rd line of defence from the LOC. The same process of identity checking, collection and questioning repeats here. Finish this today so that tomorrow is a clean day of trekking. Ten minutes out of the army camp is the first of the Satsar lakes. The lake is pretty big and looks picturesque in its green setting with mountains in front. Choose a place to camp here for the day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
After crossing the stream, take the trail that goes up the mountain. The trail now looks like a typical western ghats trail. The terrain feels very similar. You are just above the tree line. Trees and the river valley are visible below you. The hour and a half long climb takes you up by 1,100 feet. Once beyond the 11,500 feet altitude, the climb graduates to a traverse. The trail bends round to the left and leaves the river valley. You are now walking on a flat trail surrounded by mountains on a meadow. To your right are a few deep craters. This place is called as Maengandob. The landscape ahead is captivating. Isolated mountains stand in front. Towards the right is a small ridge. In between is a flat green bed with a stream flowing through. Choose to camp here if Gadsar lake was your last camp. If the army camp is where you started, it makes sense to cover a little more distance today and camp near the first of the Satsar lakes. Satsar is actually a collection of 7 lakes. You can find 4 or 5 lakes with water, depending on the season. Beyond the ridge, on the right, is the Satsar army check post. It is the 3rd line of defence from the LOC. The same process of identity checking, collection and questioning repeats here. Finish this today so that tomorrow is a clean day of trekking. Ten minutes out of the army camp is the first of the Satsar lakes. The lake is pretty big and looks picturesque in its green setting with mountains in front. Choose a place to camp here for the day.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Trek from Satsar to Gangabal via Zaj Pass
Trek distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours
Altitude loss: 11,985 ft to 11,486 ft via 13,276 ft
Trek gradient: Difficult. 30 minutes each of gradual ascent and descent followed by a steep ascent for about 45 and then by a steep descent. Similarly ascending and descending trail all the way through.
Water sources: Carry 2 litres of water. You will find a stream mid way during the descent to refill your water bottles.
Mild ascent followed by gradual descent followed by a long steep ascent and long steep descent followed by gradual up and down walk. The day's trek goes up and down replicating the trek as a whole which mostly goes up and down. Trek up half an hour out of camp, to reach the biggest Satsar lake. The terrain is bouldery and it is more of a boulder hopping exercise than anything else. The biggest of the Satsar lakes is also the last in the sequence. After the last lake, the trail starts to descend. Continue for half an hour on the main trail until you see the forest line ahead to your left. The right side is a ridge line, about 1,000 ft higher. It is time to gain height again. The altitude at the base of the climb is 11,800 feet. Take the zig-zag pony track to climb up to the top of the first ridge. A 45-minute trek with limited breaks will see you on top of the first ridge. Once on top, you see two more ridges to climb. The trail from the base to top is barren and rocky. Looking behind at the opposite mountains, spot the Gujjar huts amidst the tall pines. You will not fail to notice the bareness of the mountains here and the greenery on the other side.
A total of two-hour ascent brings you to the top of the 3rd ridge. The altimeter reads about 13,400 feet. The best part, however, is the surprise view you get from the ridge top. The two lakes lie next to one another. A stream takes water from the higher lake to the lower. If you look keenly, two more blue lakes are seen, one on either side at a distance. The smaller lakes are nameless but the biggest amongst the set is the Gangabal. Its companion is the Nandkol. You now know your destination. It is 1,400 feet below you. The route descends a bit more and ascends again to the lake. Take pictures of both sides and brace yourself for a steep stony descent. Your destination is either the Gangabal or the Nandkol. The ascent is dry but on the descent, you cross a stream mid way. Fill your empty bottles with cold water and move on. An hour and a half steep descent brings you to green meadows again. The meadow is not too wide but stretches from your right to left. A kilometre down left, you see the tree line again. Once at the base, the lake shore is still a good distance. The destination is seen but seems far away.
A quick climb, a shorter descent and a stream crossing over a wooden log bridge brings you to the shores of Nandkol lake. Notice that this lake is not as pristine as the other lakes you saw on the trek. Remnants of camping are all around. A lot of people trek up from Naranag to Gangabal and go back as a weekend outing. You will wish they spared time and thought to clean up the mess they created by these beautiful lakes.
The Nandkol lake lies at the base of the Harmukh peak. The Harmukh glacier hangs on the sides of the rocky edges of the mountain. Both the Gangabal and Nandkol are famous for trout fishing. The Gangabal lake is about 20 minutes away from Nandkol. A fiery stream flows on the right of the two lakes connecting them. The stream has to be crossed to go to Gangabal from Nandkol. Do not try to cross the stream at the lower levels but go all the way to the bank of Gangabal and on the right you find a good man-made bridge laid out. Gangabal is huge. A parikrama of either of the lakes will easily take an hour.
Read More
Mild ascent followed by gradual descent followed by a long steep ascent and long steep descent followed by gradual up and down walk. The day's trek goes up and down replicating the trek as a whole which mostly goes up and down. Trek up half an hour out of camp, to reach the biggest Satsar lake. The terrain is bouldery and it is more of a boulder hopping exercise than anything else. The biggest of the Satsar lakes is also the last in the sequence. After the last lake, the trail starts to descend. Continue for half an hour on the main trail until you see the forest line ahead to your left. The right side is a ridge line, about 1,000 ft higher. It is time to gain height again. The altitude at the base of the climb is 11,800 feet. Take the zig-zag pony track to climb up to the top of the first ridge. A 45-minute trek with limited breaks will see you on top of the first ridge. Once on top, you see two more ridges to climb. The trail from the base to top is barren and rocky. Looking behind at the opposite mountains, spot the Gujjar huts amidst the tall pines. You will not fail to notice the bareness of the mountains here and the greenery on the other side.
A total of two-hour ascent brings you to the top of the 3rd ridge. The altimeter reads about 13,400 feet. The best part, however, is the surprise view you get from the ridge top. The two lakes lie next to one another. A stream takes water from the higher lake to the lower. If you look keenly, two more blue lakes are seen, one on either side at a distance. The smaller lakes are nameless but the biggest amongst the set is the Gangabal. Its companion is the Nandkol. You now know your destination. It is 1,400 feet below you. The route descends a bit more and ascends again to the lake. Take pictures of both sides and brace yourself for a steep stony descent. Your destination is either the Gangabal or the Nandkol. The ascent is dry but on the descent, you cross a stream mid way. Fill your empty bottles with cold water and move on. An hour and a half steep descent brings you to green meadows again. The meadow is not too wide but stretches from your right to left. A kilometre down left, you see the tree line again. Once at the base, the lake shore is still a good distance. The destination is seen but seems far away.
A quick climb, a shorter descent and a stream crossing over a wooden log bridge brings you to the shores of Nandkol lake. Notice that this lake is not as pristine as the other lakes you saw on the trek. Remnants of camping are all around. A lot of people trek up from Naranag to Gangabal and go back as a weekend outing. You will wish they spared time and thought to clean up the mess they created by these beautiful lakes.
The Nandkol lake lies at the base of the Harmukh peak. The Harmukh glacier hangs on the sides of the rocky edges of the mountain. Both the Gangabal and Nandkol are famous for trout fishing. The Gangabal lake is about 20 minutes away from Nandkol. A fiery stream flows on the right of the two lakes connecting them. The stream has to be crossed to go to Gangabal from Nandkol. Do not try to cross the stream at the lower levels but go all the way to the bank of Gangabal and on the right you find a good man-made bridge laid out. Gangabal is huge. A parikrama of either of the lakes will easily take an hour.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Trek from Gangabal to Naranag and Drive back to Srinagar
Trek distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours
Drive Distance: 2 hours | Drive Duration: 50 km
Altitude loss: 11,486 ft to 7,800 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate. A mix of ascents and descents for 6 km followed by a very steep descent all the way down.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water from Gangabal. You will find sources along the trail to refill your water bottles.
The day's trek is a killer on your toes and knees, it is a gradual descent followed by a steep descent. From the Gangabal camp site head down along the stream towards the tree line. Don’t walk beside the stream but walk along the ridge on the right. 30 minutes into the trail, your Aircel phone could catch network, just enough to inform home that you are alive! The ridge ends and you descend to a green and a flat meadow on the right.
The Harmukh peak looks impressive when you look back. The green meadow has little yellow flowers growing all over and you start walking gingerly to avoid stepping over them.
An hour out of the camp site, you hit the fringes of the tree line. Pine trees line the meadows and you also see traces of civilization with the presence of a log hut. Do not walk into the forest directly but stick to its fringes and walk towards the right. As a trademark of this trek, you don’t lose altitude now but start to climb up a bit. You drop to 10,800 feet at the tree line but climb again to 11,000 feet. For about 6 km you never really lose altitude and you are forever around the 10,800 feet mark, making your way in and out of the Pine forest and finally entering it fully.
Read More
The day's trek is a killer on your toes and knees, it is a gradual descent followed by a steep descent. From the Gangabal camp site head down along the stream towards the tree line. Don’t walk beside the stream but walk along the ridge on the right. 30 minutes into the trail, your Aircel phone could catch network, just enough to inform home that you are alive! The ridge ends and you descend to a green and a flat meadow on the right.
The Harmukh peak looks impressive when you look back. The green meadow has little yellow flowers growing all over and you start walking gingerly to avoid stepping over them.
An hour out of the camp site, you hit the fringes of the tree line. Pine trees line the meadows and you also see traces of civilization with the presence of a log hut. Do not walk into the forest directly but stick to its fringes and walk towards the right. As a trademark of this trek, you don’t lose altitude now but start to climb up a bit. You drop to 10,800 feet at the tree line but climb again to 11,000 feet. For about 6 km you never really lose altitude and you are forever around the 10,800 feet mark, making your way in and out of the Pine forest and finally entering it fully.
Only after walking for 2/3 of the distance does the true descent begin. The descent is now really steep. The trail is a well-trodden, muddy one through the thick of the pines. The last 4 km see you dropping more than 3,000 ft. It is not rare to spot a lot of people trekking up here from Naranag, headed to Gangabal. Naranag slowly comes in sight at around 8,500 ft but there is quite a bit more to go. The last stretch of the last day does become an endurance test but soon the stone-paved village track comes up and in no time you enter the main road of Naranag. Drive to Srinagar and reach by 6.30 pm. Stay overnight at Srinagar.
Imp: While returning from Naranag, the checkpost closes at 4pm. Make sure to plan according to this. If stuck, you will personally have to take the help of Indian Army for your stay at night.
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Buffer Day
Note: Some stay options if you have an extra day at Srinagar - Hotel Chinar Inn , Royal Athena Houseboats and Alhamra Retreats
For all your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability.
This depends completely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 1,800 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
Read More
For all your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability.
This depends completely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 1,800 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
go to previous day Day 7
How Difficult is the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate-Difficult
Suitable for Experience Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 74.6 km in six trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,565 ft (8,150 ft to 13,715 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections. There are several pass-crossings as well. Do not be fooled by the meadows. Kashmir Great Lakes Trek throws serious challenges if you are not well-prepared.
Terrain:
Each day of this trek is long. You walk more than 10 km every day. Some days even go up to 16 km. There’s not a single day where you walk less than 9 km. And it’s not flat walking. You’re constantly going up and down.
There are multiple high passes on this trek. You’re often climbing up to 13,000–14,000 ft. And you do this more than once. These climbs test your stamina. The descents test your knees. So it's not just about fitness. It's about being mentally prepared for back-to-back tough days.
First-day climb to Nichnai Campsite is quite a bit of an ascent from Shitkadi to the Table Top point.
Continuous ascent from Nichnai Campsite to Nichnai Pass: It's a 3-hour climb to Nichnai Pass from the Nichnai Campsite.
The challenging climb to Gadsar Pass is a steep 2-hour ascent, followed by a steep descent, followed by a gentle walk in the meadows.
Boulder section from Satsar to Gangabal: On this day, you will come across a 40-minute-long section filled with big boulders. There is no trail here. You will hop, skip and jump on this section to cross it!
During the steep descent to Naranag, you will descend more than 3000 ft.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Although Kashmir lies in the rain shadow region and rain isn’t much of a worry on this trek, exceptions do happen. Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Shitkadi to Nichnai, it's about 6-7 hours of an ascent with an altitude gain of almost 3,500 ft in a single day. It is also the very first day of your trek. This makes you highly susceptible to AMS.
You’re always above 11,000 ft on this trek and at altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
There are no easy exit options on this trek since it goes through several high passes and valleys. Hence, evacuation in case of an emergency can take time. The narrow and steep trails make this slower than a normal descent.
​​ If you’re struggling to cope with the first two days of the trek, it is best to turn around from the Vishansar lake campsite. Moving further to Gadsar will make evacuations and exits very hard.
Closest Hospital to the Kashmir Great L;akes Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital will be found around Sonamarg, at Baltal or Kangan. If you need serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to be on this trek is from the beginning of July to the middle of September . That’s the only time you can trek here. In all the other seasons, Kashmir trails are buried under snow.
This season brings up many questions in the mind of a trekker. Primarily because it is monsoon in the rest of the country. Will it rain heavily on the trek? Well, most trails in Uttarakhand are shut during this time. But things are different in Kashmir.
If you observe the map, you see the Pir Panjal range separating Kashmir from the rest of the Indian subcontinent. This range is 288 km long and 40-50 km wide. It blocks most rain clouds from crossing over into the Kashmir Valley.
This divide determines the nature of precipitation and the vegetation in this rainshadow area. All of which stand very different from the rest of the country.
July to September happens to be peak summer transitioning to Autumn and the best time to trek in Kashmir. The landscape comes alive during this window. And even though the window is tight, you notice the landscape changing colour and texture as the months proceed.
Kashmir Great Lakes in early July
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 2 °C and 7 °C
Presence of snow: Snow remains at higher altitudes, at Nichnai Pass, and towards Gadsar. But the trek is more or less accessible. As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month. The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts. Caution: It’s risky to attempt a pass crossing when there’s too much snow. So hold back and exercise safety. Horses too cannot continue under such conditions.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
This is peak summer in Kashmir. The upper reaches of the trek start crawling out of the snow blanket in July. It’s warm and you experience light evening showers during this month.
The trail to Kashmir Great Lakes opens in the first week of July. Snow remains at higher altitudes, at Nichnai Pass and towards Gadsar. But the trek is more or less accessible.
As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month.
The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
Kashmir Great Lakes from mid-July to third week of August
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Most snow has melted by now. Frozen chunks of ice in most lakes on the trail would have melted. But you will still find ice floes on the green Gadsar lake.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
After mid-July, a robust trekking season begins on the Kashmir Great Lakes trek. Expect bright sunny mornings with some evening showers. Rains although, are still mild when compared to rains in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.
The trail is carpeted with green meadows everywhere. The Gadsar meadows earn a special mention here. They look dramatic in contrast with the rugged, grey mountains around them. The best part is, that these meadows are densely dotted with wildflowers!
Protip: You might experience evening showers on certain days during this time of the year. This is why it is a good practice to cross the pass early in the day and reach the next campsite by 4 PM.
Kashmir Great Lakes from Aug-end to second week of Sept
Day time temperature: Between 14 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperature : Between 0 °C and 5 °C
Presence of snow: You can expect snowfall during the second week of September
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
After the end of August, cold sets in. Rains reduce giving way to one of the best times to do the trek. The clouds part during this time of the year and you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes.
| Photography Point: It's a sight to behold from Gadsar Pass. You can catch the twin lakes Krishansar and Vishnusar in one frame. They sparkle and are deep blue under a clear sky.
Another stark change that happens in early September is the change in the colour of the meadows. The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers change. And yet, there’s a beauty to this change of tone.
We usually stop our trek after the second week of September. It turns colder and chances of snowfall increase. That raises the difficulty of the trek and it's no longer possible to cross the pass. The trail on the other side becomes inaccessible.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
It is great to see you going on the Kashmir Great Lakes, one of the most beautiful treks in India. While it is a great trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly.
Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air ticket to Srinagar.
Note: Some stay options if you have an extra day at Srinagar: Hotel Chinar Inn , Royal Athena Houseboats and Alhamra Retreats .
Day 8: Book a return flight ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 8.
Note :
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.
On your return, your trek ends at Sonarmarg. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar. You reach Srinagar between 6.00 and 7.00 pm.
Buffer Day: Keep a buffer day for emergencies. Your trek is 6 days long, but keep an extra 7th day as your buffer day. This is outside the itinerary. You cannot predict bad rain, landslides or a political situation on a trek. If you don’t use the buffer day on the trek, you can always use it for sightseeing in Srinagar.
Always book your return flight/train tickets after including the buffer day in your itinerary.
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, which is the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to Srinagar.
There are two options.
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar or even better if you can head towards Sonamarg.
You can travel to Sonamarg if you land at Srinagar before noon .
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. There are many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar that take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, then you have multiple options to take. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
Tip: Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT compared to the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it “ Bus Adda ”. The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Pro Tip: Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Sonamarg is about 4 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 6.00 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So you need to stay in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 9. The buffer day must be included in your itinerary. Day 8 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 9.
Note: The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. To reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
Book your flight out from Srinagar.
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
| Pro Tip: Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
4. Planning your hotel/stay
While booking hotels on your return, always book your rooms assuming the buffer day is not being used. Assume the trek is going to run without any hiccups. So what happens if you use your buffer day on the trek? Unfortunately, then you’ll probably lose your hotel booking. So book hotels where you may not have to transfer money in advance. Even if you do, consider it better than missing out on the trek. In Srinagar, it is difficult to find last-minute hotel bookings when you finish the trek.
Hotel options at Srinagar
Hotel Chinar Inn is close to the pickup location. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Royal Athena Houseboats is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Alhamra Retreats is a guest house with good facilities available.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
Contact Number: +91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Kashimir Great Lakes Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs consistently.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How long is the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek? expand accordion
On the Kashmir Great Lakes trek, you cover 75 km in 6 days (7 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 6,175 ft in Srinagar to Gadsar Pass at 13,715 ft. You’ll trek long distances around 10-11 km on an average every day. This is why the Kashmir Great Lakes trek requires good preparation.
How difficult is the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek? expand accordion
The Kashmir Great Lakes Trek is one of the prettiest treks in India. Yet, you’ll get to enjoy its rewards only after a bit of hard work and toil. The trek is not as easy as the pictures make it look. It is of moderate-difficult grade. And there are mainly three factors that make it difficult.
Three strenuous pass crossings – Gadsar Pass, Nichnai Pass, and Zaj Pass.
Long hours of trekking every day . Each day involves around 8-9 hours of trekking.
Considerable altitude gain every day , of around 1,500 – 3,000 ft.
How fit do I need to be for Kashmir Great Lakes? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Kashmir Great Lakes requires a really good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 32 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 25 km a week or 100 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
OR
Alternatively, cycle for at least 25 km in 60 minutes . Aim to cycle 125 km a week or 500 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
Is the Kashmir Great Lakes trek Safe? expand accordion
The Kashmir Great Lakes trail is safe. It is in the remote regions of Kashmir, away from the hotbed of turmoil. It is towards the more touristy Sonamarg region. There are also 3 army camps on the trekking trail. And we camp close to them. So the trekking trail itself is completely safe.
However, political unrest, curfews and clampdowns have occurred in the past during our trekking season. We have tackled these efficiently, never compromising on the safety of trekkers. We travel during non-curfew hours and take measures to safely pick up or drop trekkers at the airport.
Sometimes, we call off treks if the situation is too serious (for instance when Burhan Wani was shot and the political situation in Kashmir was out of control). Calling off a trek is a worst-case scenario and has not occurred too many times in the past.
Keep in mind that if we are running the Kashmir Great Lakes trek, you can assume that it is safe. We would not compromise on anyone’s safety and run it during dangerous times.
How many months in advance should I book the Kashmir Great Lake trek? expand accordion
The Kashmir Great Lakes Trek (KGL) has a narrow window for trekking. It is possible to trek in Kashmir for only 3 months in a year. The season starts in July and goes till the middle of September.
But the Kashmir Great Lakes trek is one of the most popular treks in our country. Trekkers eagerly wait to do this trek.
This is why when we open groups for KGL early in the year — by end of February-early march they get fully booked within 2 weeks.
Pro-Tip : We post regular updates on KGL through our social media and newsletter. Make sure to follow it!
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Kashmir Great Lakes trek? expand accordion
You will get mobile connectivity only till Srinagar. After that the network is sketchy and almost non-existent.
Make sure you finish all your important telephone calls before starting your travel to the basecamp. Inform family members about poor connectivity during the trek.
Note : Prepaid SIM cards do not work in Kashmir.
As for electricity, you won’t have access to electricity or charging points anywhere during the trek
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at Srinagar for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
Please do not leave behind any valuables.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Should I do Kashmir Great Lakes or Tarsar Marsar Trek? expand accordion
This is a tough one! The treks are so vastly different from each other despite being in Kashmir. A basic way to make your decision would be based on your fitness. Kashmir Great Lakes is a lot tougher than the Tarsar Marsar trek. It involves crossing three mountain passes, long distances every day, and a longer duration of being in the wilderness.
Tarsar Marsar is the easier sister trek of Kashmir Great Lakes. The trekking days are short and friendly, and you have long leisure time at the campsites. So the trek is very beginner-friendly.
I would recommend reading this article where our co-founder Sandhya beautifully compares the two treks in terms of the scenery, variety and difficulty.
https://indiahikes.com/tarsar-marsar-vs-kashmir-great-lakes-which-trek-choose
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
If you are above the age of 58 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advise you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
Is offloading available for Kashmir Great Lakes? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters, mules or horses on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Kashmir Great Lakes trek is Rs 4,800 (for 6 days) excluding tax plus Rs 800 if you use the buffer day.
Relevant Checkpost timings expand accordion
While returning, Naranag Checkpost closes at 4pm.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.