Kedartal Trek 2026 | A Rare Adventure to a High-Altitude Lake Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Kedartal Trek
A Rare Adventure Among Big Mountains
Summer Groups are almost full. We've opened new groups for Autumn.
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
Starting Your Trek at Gangotri: At 10,000 ft, Gangotri is one of the highest starting points of any of our treks. With the Bhagirathi flowing past and the marble-white Gangotri temple, it is also one of the most spiritual.
Camping Among Himalayan Giants: At Kedar Kharak Campsite, you’re surrounded by giant Himalayan Peaks– Thalaysagar, Bhrigupanth, Manda Parvat and Jogin. Spending days and nights in their presence is a rare privilege.
The High-Altitude Kedartal Lake: Close to 16,000 ft above sea-level, the huge glacial lake shimmers emerald blue. Set in a cauldron surrounded by huge Himalayan Peaks, it’s harder to imagine a grander setting.
The Handsome Thalaysagar Peak: Thalaysagar is one of the most dramatic rock faces in the Himalayas — a legendary challenge for mountaineers worldwide. At Kedartal, witness its reflection in the still water.
A Rare Adventure Among Big Mountains
The Kedartal trek is an adventure-seekers' dream. It is for trekkers who have explored the Himalayas and now want to push themselves further. This is no easy trek—it is challenging, demanding, and tests your limits. But the rewards? They are nothing short of magical.
Kedartal, a high-altitude glacial lake nestled at approximately 16,000 feet, offers an experience like no other. Standing at the lake’s edge is profoundly moving, with Mount Thalaysagar’s pyramid-like summit towering across the water. The sight of iconic peaks like Mt. Bhrigupanth, the Jogin sisters, and Mandar Parvat rising 6,000 to 7,000 meters high surrounds you with an unmatched grandeur. For many trekkers, the beauty is so overwhelming that it tears their eyes.
What makes Kedartal such a challenging trek? Find out here from a personal blog.
play video
The trek begins at the pilgrim town of Gangotri, weaving through dense coniferous forests, overhangs, and loose scree trails. As you ascend to Bhoj Kharak, a campsite tucked onto a sloping ledge, and further to Kedar Kharak at 14,500 feet, the changing landscapes are awe-inspiring. Here, the skies are a vivid blue, and the sunsets, casting vibrant hues on the big mountain peaks, are spectacular. From enchanting Bhojpatra forests to the tranquil Kedartal Lake cradled by Himalayan giants, this trek offers peace, adventure, and a profound sense of accomplishment. It stays with you long after you’ve returned home.
Read more
expand overview
The trek begins at the pilgrim town of Gangotri, weaving through dense coniferous forests, overhangs, and loose scree trails. As you ascend to Bhoj Kharak, a campsite tucked onto a sloping ledge, and further to Kedar Kharak at 14,500 feet, the changing landscapes are awe-inspiring. Here, the skies are a vivid blue, and the sunsets, casting vibrant hues on the big mountain peaks, are spectacular. From enchanting Bhojpatra forests to the tranquil Kedartal Lake cradled by Himalayan giants, this trek offers peace, adventure, and a profound sense of accomplishment. It stays with you long after you’ve returned home.
Who can do this trek?
This trek is not for the faint-hearted. It challenges you with steep ascents, tricky descents, and unpredictable terrains like boulders and scree slopes. The rapid altitude gain from 11,000 to over 15,000 feet in just a few days makes it imperative to prepare well, physically and mentally. This trek is best suited for experienced trekkers or those with good fitness and strong determination.
What makes the Kedartal Lake trek special:
The Gangotri Base Camp
Gangotri is no ordinary base camp. It sits beside the Bhagirathi River, offering a unique combination of natural beauty and spiritual significance. As you arrive, the majestic Sudarshan peak rises before you—a rare sight for a base camp. It also serves as the starting point for the renowned Gaumukh Tapovan trek, adding to its allure. This base camp teases you with the promise of Himalayan grandeur and leaves you yearning for more.
Being Among the Big Mountains
The trek is a gateway to the heart of the Greater Himalayas. Here, the mighty Mt. Thalaysagar, Mt. Bhrigupanth, Manda Parvat, Mt. Jogin, and Mt. Gangotri surround you like silent sentinels. Camping in the shadows of these peaks is an experience of unmatched intimacy with nature’s giants. It is rare to be this close to such iconic mountains and rarer still to spend so much time soaking in their magnificence.
The Serenity of Kedartal Lake
Reaching Kedartal Lake feels like stepping into a dream. Nestled at the foot of Mt. Thalaysagar, the lake shimmers in shades of blue, emerald, or grey, depending on the weather. Its still waters often mirror the towering peak above, creating a scene of almost otherworldly beauty. The calmness of this high-altitude lake is a balm to the soul and a fitting reward for the challenging climb.
The Thrill of Adventure
Kedartal is not for the faint-hearted. The trek brims with adrenaline-pumping moments. From crossing a rock face enroute to Bhoj Kharak to navigating the infamous Spider Wall—a narrow ledge on a vertical rock face—you will find your limits tested. The trail to Kedartal itself, strewn with rocks and requiring constant focus, ensures that every step is an adventure.
The Kedartal trek is a journey of contrasts—serene yet adventurous, rewarding yet challenging. It is a journey that stays with you long after your return, not just as a trek but as an experience of a lifetime.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Kedartal : Take on the adventure of trekking to Kedartal, a rare adventure among big mountains supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Homestay at Gangotri: One of the highest pilgrimage sites of India. It is a very small town with a small population but a very culturally significant. You'll stay at local homestays and experience the culture of the town first-hand.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Gangotri on Day 1 to dinner at Gangotri on Day 6 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cab fare is Rs 9,000 for an SUV and Rs 14,000 for a Tempo Traveller (seats 10-12). This is not included in the trek fee. It is to be shared amongst trekkers and paid directly to the driver.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Offloading
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Especially because this is a difficult trek. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Kedartal - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Kedartal trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this map to get a visual cue of the Kedartal trek.
Day 1
Reach Gangotri from Dehradun
Drive distance: 242 km | Drive Duration: 8 hours
Transport will be arranged from , Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun at 5.00 am. The transport cost is ₹1550 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3100 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Acclimatization day around Gangotri (10,052 ft)
Take a short trek up one of the trails around Gangotri and then return to base.
Day 3
Trek from Gangotri (10,052 ft) to Bhoj Kharak (13,220 ft)
Trek distance: 6 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Moderate-difficult. Steep ascent all the way. The terrain is rocky in many parts.
Day 4
Bhoj Kharak (13,220 ft) to Kedar Kharak (14,240 ft)
Trek distance: 2.5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours
Moderate-difficult . 1 km of steep ascent followed by 3 km of moderate ascents and descents.
Day 5
Kedar Kharak (14,240 ft) to Kedartal (16,000 ft) and back to Kedar Kharak (14,240 ft)
Trek distance: 5.40 km | Trek Duration: 8 hours
Difficult. Continuously ascending trail over a rocky terrain.
Day 6
Kedar Kharak (14,240 ft) to Gangotri (10,052 ft)
Trek distance: 8.50 km | Trek Duration: 8 hours
Moderate . Continuously descending trail over a rocky terrain
Day 7
Gangotri to Dehradun
Drive distance : 242 km | Drive Duration: 8 hours
The transport cost is ₹1550 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3100 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Drop Location and Time: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun at 8.00 pm
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete Trek Guide with Photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Reach Gangotri
Drive Duration: 8 hour drive.
Altitude: 10,052 ft (3,064 m)
Difficulty: Moderate ascent. Well-marked road followed by forest trails.
The trek begins at Gangotri the following morning. Gangotri is known as the source of the river Ganga (the actual source being Gaumukh), which is known as Bhagirathi here.
It is said that King Bhagirath prayed to Lord Shiva for the salvation of the souls of his 60,000 sons. Shiva obliged and requested Goddess Ganga to release her water, which purified the ashes of Bhagirath’s sons. This mythological story elevated the status of the River Ganga as a means to purify one’s soul.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
The trek begins at Gangotri the following morning. Gangotri is known as the source of the river Ganga (the actual source being Gaumukh), which is known as Bhagirathi here.
It is said that King Bhagirath prayed to Lord Shiva for the salvation of the souls of his 60,000 sons. Shiva obliged and requested Goddess Ganga to release her water, which purified the ashes of Bhagirath’s sons. This mythological story elevated the status of the River Ganga as a means to purify one’s soul.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Acclimatisation day in Gangotri
Use this day to get acclimatised to the altitude. Take a short trek up one of the trails around Gangotri and then return to base. You can spend the rest of the day exploring the area and taking in the pilgrim town's sights and sounds.
Read More
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Use this day to get acclimatised to the altitude. Take a short trek up one of the trails around Gangotri and then return to base. You can spend the rest of the day exploring the area and taking in the pilgrim town's sights and sounds.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Gangotri to Bhoj kharak
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 6 km
Altitude gain ⇗: 10,052 ft Trek to 13,220 ft
Diifculty: Moderate-difficult. Steep ascent all the way. The terrain is rocky in many parts.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. There are three sources on the way where you can refill your water bottles.
Walk into the Gangotri market. There are public washrooms here if you want to use them before setting off on the trek. Carry dry rations or packed lunch since there is no food available on this trail.
Around 50 meters from the washrooms, take the steps going down to the right towards the Bhairav Ghati bridge across the Bhagirathi river. The trail to Bhoj Kharak begins as soon as you cross the river. You will see a GMVN lodge to the right. You will also pass the ashrams of a few sages. The trail here has already begun to ascend.
After 200 meters, take a trail that climbs up sharply to the right, along the side of another ashram. This brings you to the forest trail to Bhoj Kharak. This frequently trekked route is the only path available to reach Bhoj Kharak. Here, the trail ascends steeply almost to Bhoj Kharak.
Read More
Walk into the Gangotri market. There are public washrooms here if you want to use them before setting off on the trek. Carry dry rations or packed lunch since there is no food available on this trail.
Around 50 meters from the washrooms, take the steps going down to the right towards the Bhairav Ghati bridge across the Bhagirathi river. The trail to Bhoj Kharak begins as soon as you cross the river. You will see a GMVN lodge to the right. You will also pass the ashrams of a few sages. The trail here has already begun to ascend.
After 200 meters, take a trail that climbs up sharply to the right, along the side of another ashram. This brings you to the forest trail to Bhoj Kharak. This frequently trekked route is the only path available to reach Bhoj Kharak. Here, the trail ascends steeply almost to Bhoj Kharak.
The trail is rocky in most parts. Being the first day of the trek, it is likely that you will struggle for your breath as lift yourself and your bag onto the rocks. Below you, you hear the KedarGanga river thundering past. Above you are branches of the fir trees you find in this forest. The valley becomes narrower as you go deeper. There are short stretches of flat walks that allow you to catch your breath but the climb is relentless.
After an hour and a half of climbing, the fir tree gives way to birch or bhoj. The barks of these trees shed thin sheets that resemble paper. Due to the durability and texture of this bark, most of our ancient Indian texts were written on it. The locals use it in their shoes as insulation from the cold.
Though the terrain is strenuous, ‘rhythmic trekking’ takes the edge off it. It is important to take small sips of water at equal intervals to keep well hydrated. The trail crosses three water points from where you can refill your water bottles.
After about four hours of trekking, the trail emerges out of the forest. Here, you get your first ‘spider wall’ or a narrow path on a near-vertical rock face. The trail has just enough space to keep afoot at a time. Focus on the next step and do not look down – you’ll be able to cross this path comfortably.
The trail climbs for another fifteen minutes before you reach the second spider wall. Cross this and you will reach the campsite within five minutes.
The BhojKharak campsite consists of small strips of land lying to the left of the trail. You will have to find flat stretches to pitch your tents. There’s wild grass growing around. The valley here is quite narrow so the view is not very great.
The closest water source is the stream flowing along the spider wall that you just crossed.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Bhoj Kharak to Kedar Kharak
Trek Duration: 3-4 hours | Trek Duration: 2.5 km
Altitude gain ⇗: 13,220 ft to 14,240 ft
Difficulty: Moderate-difficult. 1 km of steep ascent followed by 3 km of moderate ascents and descents.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. There are sources on the way where you can refill your water bottles.
The trek from Bhoj Kharak to Kedar Kharak is relatively simple compared to the previous day’s climb. Though there are a few grim patches, the terrain has uniform ascents and descents. The trek to Kedar Kharak, situated at 14,000 ft, is 4 km and takes about five hours.
The ascent is quite steep as soon as you set out of the campsite at Bhoj Kharak. After a 1 km trek through the Bhoj forests, the trail leaves the tree line and enters meadows which are multi colours in autumn – an astounding setting for photography with the snow-covered peak Bhrigupanth in the backdrop.
The next 2 km feel like a relaxing stroll as there are fewer steep ascents. It is in this stretch that you may get a chance to encounter high altitude fauna like Bharal (blue sheep), Goral, Himalayan black bear and a variety of birds.
Read More
The trek from Bhoj Kharak to Kedar Kharak is relatively simple compared to the previous day’s climb. Though there are a few grim patches, the terrain has uniform ascents and descents. The trek to Kedar Kharak, situated at 14,000 ft, is 4 km and takes about five hours.
The ascent is quite steep as soon as you set out of the campsite at Bhoj Kharak. After a 1 km trek through the Bhoj forests, the trail leaves the tree line and enters meadows which are multi colours in autumn – an astounding setting for photography with the snow-covered peak Bhrigupanth in the backdrop.
The next 2 km feel like a relaxing stroll as there are fewer steep ascents. It is in this stretch that you may get a chance to encounter high altitude fauna like Bharal (blue sheep), Goral, Himalayan black bear and a variety of birds.
The climate gets chillier as you gain altitude. Do not be surprised if you notice a thin layer of frost over the stones in the streams. After passing about two more water points you reach Kedar Kharak.
The camp is set on a vast dry meadow with a few sparsely distributed boulders beside a wide stream. The stony path through which the stream climbs is the trail for the Day 4 Trek.
It is an exceptional sight to watch the sunset at Kedar Kharak. As the red ball of fire sinks behind the snow-clad Bhrigupant the entire meadow looks orange and turns grey at dusk.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Kedar Kharak to Kedar Tal and return to Kedar Kharak
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Duration: 5.4 km
Altude gain: 14,240 ft to 16,000 ft and back to 14,240 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. Continuously ascending trail over a rocky terrain.
Water source: Carry 2 litres of water. There are no water sources on this day.
On this day the excitement level among the trekkers is usually at its peak, with the eagerness to make it to the emerald lake taking over any exhaustion from the previous day’s treks.
Start early as this stretch is the most laborious of all. At a height of 16,116 ft, the ‘Tal’ is a 5 km slog from Kedar Kharak through rocky mountains with absolutely no greenery around.
Despite the barrenness, the terrain can be quite exhilarating. With vigorous ascents and very few descents, it demands a great deal of energy and effort to be able to reach the destination on time, considering the unpredictable weather conditions, with the probability of snow and rain being quite high during this season. The trail can best be described as a rocky maze with just one or two small streams that are not close by, thus requiring us to carry adequate water supplies.
Read More
On this day the excitement level among the trekkers is usually at its peak, with the eagerness to make it to the emerald lake taking over any exhaustion from the previous day’s treks.
Start early as this stretch is the most laborious of all. At a height of 16,116 ft, the ‘Tal’ is a 5 km slog from Kedar Kharak through rocky mountains with absolutely no greenery around.
Despite the barrenness, the terrain can be quite exhilarating. With vigorous ascents and very few descents, it demands a great deal of energy and effort to be able to reach the destination on time, considering the unpredictable weather conditions, with the probability of snow and rain being quite high during this season. The trail can best be described as a rocky maze with just one or two small streams that are not close by, thus requiring us to carry adequate water supplies.
If not careful, one can easily get turned around and it takes a while to realise that the route is off beam. For this reason, a lot of cairns ( piles of stones) have been placed en route to the Tal to point in the right direction. Watch your step as there are plenty of loose rocks on the way. After about 5- 6 hours of trekking, and half a kilometre away from the lake, you can see the mighty Thalaysagar Peak across a rocky ridge.
Once you cross this steep ridge, the descent to the lake begins. The temperature falls drastically at Kedartal. You can see the flawless reflection of the mighty old Thalaysagar peak on the Tal. Though the water is freezing, it is quite an experience to wet your fingertips in the emerald green lake. Spend some time here and soak in the scenery before turning back to Kedar Kharak on the same route.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Kedar Kharak to Gangotri
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance: 8.5 km.
Altitude loss ⇘: 14,240 ft to 10,052 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Continuously descending trail over a rocky terrain
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. There are few sources on the way where you can refill your water bottles.
Start the descent to Gangotri right after breakfast. Trace the same path back and cherish the surroundings one last time. Since most of the trail is descending, it should take you lesser time to reach. Be mindful of loose rocks on the trail.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Start the descent to Gangotri right after breakfast. Trace the same path back and cherish the surroundings one last time. Since most of the trail is descending, it should take you lesser time to reach. Be mindful of loose rocks on the trail.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Return to Dehradun
Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 242 km
The cab fare is Rs 8,500 (Tempo Traveller) and Rs 14,000 (SUV). You will reach Dehradun between 6.00 PM and 7.00 PM.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
The cab fare is Rs 8,500 (Tempo Traveller) and Rs 14,000 (SUV). You will reach Dehradun between 6.00 PM and 7.00 PM.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult Is Kedartal Trek
What You Can Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 22.4 km in five trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,950 ft (10,050 ft to 16,000 ft). Every day will include steep ascents or descents and boulder sections. There are several difficult sections on this trek that require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
Right from the time you begin your trek, there is a steep ascent. Very few treks in the country start like this. You gain 2,000 ft almost instantaneously and the climb is nearly 45-50 degrees.
You trek through pine and birch forests until you reach the spider wall section. The spider wall section is a steep rock face that is almost at an angle of 90 degrees. You traverse this section on the first day itself.
On the second day’s trek, just as you start, within 400 m, there is a rockfall zone. It is basically a scree section, and you need to navigate a steep descent here. Soon after this, there is a river crossing as well.
The summit day is not as difficult as the previous two days, but the sheer altitude makes it challenging. The final ascent to the glacial lake is extremely steep.
The return from Kedar Kharak to Gangotri is similar to your first day’s trek. You trace the route back. You approach the rockfall section at Kedar Kharak once again. Except that this time, you are descending. There is also an extremely slippery scree section, so descending is a challenge.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on.
Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
In the Autumn season, the temperatures plummet below zero. Even without snowfall, strong winds can take a toll on you if you're not well-layered.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Gangotri, situated 10,050 ft above sea-level, is our highest basecamp. Even with an extra day factored in for acclimatisation, you are prone to Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS) on this trek.
Starting from Gangotri, you gain another 3000 ft on the first day of the trek itself. This is challenging for any trekker.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The only exit point on the Kedartal Trek is Gangotri (basecamp). With only one exit point on the trail, evacuation in case of emergency becomes challenging on the Kedartal Trek.
Closest Hospital to the Kedartal Trek:
There is a Primary Health Care Center in Harsil, about 25 km from Gangotri However, it has very basic facilities. For better facilities, you need to approach the District Hospital in Uttarkashi, which is about 100 kms by road from Gangotri. However, for any advanced treatment, heading to Dehradun is the best option.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
How to Get Fit for the Kedartal Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kedartal Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Kedartal Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek-fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kedartal Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to upload?
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Kedartal Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Gangotri is the base camp for the Kedartal Trek.
Gangotri , a bustling temple town situated more than 10,000 ft above sea level, is one of the four sites in the Char Dham pilgrimage of Uttarakhand. It is around 250 km from Dehradun and takes 9-10 hours by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5.00 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
How to reach Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities. The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains running between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you the much needed rest before you start the long drive to Raithal the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Gangotri on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Gangotri. You first need to reach Uttarkashi and then take a shared jeep to Gangotri.
Direct Bus from Dehradun to Uttarkashi and Shared Jeep to Gangotri
There is one direct bus from Dehradun to Uttarkashi which leaves at 5:30 AM.
You can book seats on this bus online through the UTC Pathik App . Please note that this bus departs from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It reaches Uttarkashi around 11:30 AM.
From Uttarkashi Bus Stand, walk to the Taxi Stand.
The shared vehicles for Gangotri leave from Uttarkashi Taxi Stand from early in the morning till 12 noon. It takes around 2.5 hrs to reach Gangotri from Uttarkashi.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Kedartal Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Best Time To Do Kedartal Trek
Schedule Your Trek Dates Based on the Best Season
toggle accordion
Kedartal in Summer (mid-May to end-June)
Day Temperature: The day temperatures are pleasant at an average of 15 – 20 °C | Night Temperature: Nights can get cold, with the mercury dropping close to zero degrees. When it rains or snows, expect the daytime temperature to drop below 10 °C.
Rain/Snow in summer: The weather is quite unpredictable and volatile during the summers. The weather changes unannounced and it could abruptly start raining or even snowing.
Number of warm layers recommended in Summer: 3-4 warm layers
Summer is the most popular time to do the Kedartal trek as a big attraction in early summers is to find the Kedartal lake completely frozen. This is a rare sight. You don’t get to see a frozen lake right in the middle of huge mountains.
In contrast, the view of Mt Thalaysagar and Mt Bhrigunath with the blue sky and snow-capped mountains is exceptional!
Another big attraction at this time is the presence of snow on the trail. In May, you’ll find a good amount of snow after Kedar Kharak on the way to the summit. You will also find patches of snow before you reach Kedar Kharak, especially in the shadows of the mountains, patches where direct sunlight cannot reach.
While the presence of snow makes the trek challenging, it also adds an extra dose of adventure to the trek.
But here’s something you must keep in mind while trekking to Kedartal in summer – the months of May-June are susceptible to bad weather. Remember that the trek lies in the lap of the Greater Himalayas, and at such altitude, you can expect it to snow even in summer.
When it snows the campsites turn completely white. The white powdery snow glistens in the summer sun. It is something to watch out for.
Look how the Kedar Kharak campsite looks when it snows in the summer.
By the end of June, the arrival of monsoons is imminent. This makes the trail prone to landslides and rockfalls. The trek becomes a risky proposition to undertake.
Therefore, at Indiahikes, we wind up the summer season by June.
Kedartal in Autumn (mid-September to mid-October)
Day Temperature: Days can be quite warm with temperatures going as high as 20 °C | Night Temperature: The evenings at the campsite can get cold. Don’t be surprised if the temperatures fall below zero at night. Expect the overall temperatures to fall by 3-5 °C every couple of weeks as the season progresses.
From October, any precipitation comes down as snowfall in the higher camps. When it snows, expect 3-4 inches of snow. The initial bouts of snow tend to melt away in the sun. By the end of October, the cold increases manifold, water sources freeze and trekking becomes untenable.
Number of warm layers recommended in Summer: 4-5 warm layers
The setting shifts radically if you happen to trek to Kedartal in autumn. In September-October, the summer haze and clouds clear up to reveal brilliant mountain views.
After the monsoon, when the sky shakes off all the clouds and becomes squeaky clean, you see the best views of the mountains around. And there are many mountains to look at.
Being in the Gangotri region, this trail is surrounded by big mountains in all directions. Getting to see these mountains from such close quarters against the backdrop of a clear sky brings tears to many trekkers’ eyes.
Even the views can’t get any better than at the summit. The lake now completely still looks a shade of blue or emerald green depending on the weather. When the water is still you’ll see a complete reflection of mighty Mt. Thalaysagar reflecting in its blue-green waters.
Another thing to watch out for during autumn is the snow plumes. When heavy winds blow at the top of the mountain, the snow is dispersed in the air to form a shape resembling a plume on a hat. Hence the name snow plumes.
Although the trek is quite desolate, the little bit of vegetation does add colour to the trail. The silver birch trees turn a golden shade of yellow, while the trunk shines in the bright autumn sun.
Kedar Kharak campsite is one such campsite. Pause here to experience this riot of colours. The shrubs on the sides of the mountains also turn into autumn colours of yellow, brown and maroon.
It’s also the time you’ll see the mountain goats – the Bharal. Though this is their natural habitat, it is rare to see them. The probability of sighting them is higher in autumn. Keep an eye out along the sides of the mountains feeding on the shrubs. Keep your fingers crossed too.
An important thing to note during the autumn season is the lack of reliable water sources on the trail. Water sources en route tend to dry up. Therefore always leave camp with 2-3 litres of water.
Packing List
Things to take
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How difficult is the Kedartal trek? expand accordion
Kedartal is a difficult trek. There are a few reasons why the Kedartal is considered difficult:
How Difficult Is The Kedartal Trek | Indiahikes | Tips To Prepare | Trek Talk With Vishnu Benne
Altitude . The trek climbs up very quickly to the highest altitude of 16,000 ft, which is a very high altitude. You have hardly three days to climb this altitude, which makes you prone to the risk of Acute Mountain Sickness. (See – AMS on Kedartal Trek)
Snow . The presence of snow on the trails leading to Kedartal makes the trek quite difficult to navigate. Especially in May and June.
Tricky Sections. There are several tricky sections on the Kedartal trail that make it difficult. There are the infamous spider walls on this trek, which are near-vertical boulders along which you have to traverse. Navigating these sections requires sure-footedness and measured footsteps. This comes in only with prior experience
How fit do I need to be for Kedartal? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Kedartal requires a good fitness level. It has steep ascents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 30 minutes & 10 km in 62 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 30 km a week or 150 km in a month. It's our minimum mandatory requirement.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Difficult treks, you’re likely to trek around 12-20 km each day. Expect extremely steep ascents and descents, and maximum altitudes above 15,000 ft which can go up to 19,000+ ft. Technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks, boulder and scree sections) are an everyday affair. Some sections can only be crossed with the help of our Technical Staff.
Difficult treks are the most demanding, which is why we take only those trekkers with prior trekking experience on them.
To do a difficult trek, target running 10 km within 60 minutes consistently . This will be possible only if you can run 5 km within 30 minutes comfortably before signing up for a difficult trek.
This fitness chart will help you get there by following the plan for 8 weeks (or 2 months) before the start of your trek.
You will receive a questionnaire asking for your current fitness level and high altitude experience. Only those who have prior high altitude trekking experience will be allowed to sign up for difficult treks.
If you’re above the age of 58 years, you’ll also need to submit your Treadmill Test within 7 days of completing your registration.
How long is the Kedartal trek? expand accordion
Kedartal is a 30 km trek starting from Gangotri to Kedartal and back to Gangotri.
Although Kedartal is not a particularly long trek, it is a difficult trek to do. The altitude, the steep ascents and descents, the weather and the tricky sections demand a certain amount of experience and fitness. Physical and mental preparations are therefore essential.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Kedartal trek? expand accordion
Uttarkashi is the last town en route to Gangotri where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Uttarkashi. However, cash does run out quickly at the Uttarkashi ATMs. Hence, Dehradun is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
How many months in advance should I book the Kedartal trek? expand accordion
Given its difficulty, Kedartal Trek has an extensive selection process. It is advised to book this trek 3 months in advance.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Kedartal Trek? expand accordion
Ans)When it comes to a mobile phone network and an internet connection, you’ll find a good network until Gangotri. Airtel, BSNL, and Jio are the mobile phone connections you will most likely get. However, once you leave Gangotri, the network is spotty or non-existent.
As for electricity, Gangotri is the last point with electricity. Unlike some other remote areas, the power supply is almost uninterrupted.
At the Indiahikes base camp in Gangotri, all the rooms are equipped with plug points for trekkers to charge their electronic devices.
However, once you leave the base camp, there is no electricity. We suggest you bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Note: Power from your batteries will drain faster in cold temperatures. Our tip is to put the battery/power bank in a small pouch and keep it inside your sleeping bag to keep them warm during the night.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp? expand accordion
We do have a space where you can keep your extra luggage which you do not need on the trek. You can collect it once you are back at the base camp.
Just ensure that you do not have any valuables in the extra luggage. We do not charge any fee for this.
How many trekkers are in a group? expand accordion
Kedartal is one of the most adventurous yet difficult treks. Hence, only a maximum of 15 trekkers trek in each group.
Is offloading available for Kedartal? expand accordion
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
I am a foreign national. Do I need to pay any extra amount of money to go on this trek? expand accordion
Yes, you do. The state tourism department charges slightly higher fees for foreign trekkers to issue permits for this trek. You need to carry an extra amount of Rs 1,000. Additionally carry 4-5 copies of your passport along with your VISA.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.