Kedarkantha Trek 2026 | India’s Most Loved Winter Summit Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
KEDARKANTHA TREK
The finest summit climb for beginners
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Kotgaon: Overlooking terraced fields and traditional homes of Kotgaon, this is one of our most picturesque community campuses.
Clearings in the Forests: Clearings are rare, where the forest suddenly opens up to create a miniature meadow. Kedarkantha is blessed with such clearings , where you’ll love to just pitch your tent and make a home.
Snow-draped Forests in Winter: Dense, untouched forests of oaks, maple and conifer turn into a winter wonderland with the onset of snow. Without snow, it is a therapeutic experience to walk through these silent forests.
The Kedarkantha Summit Climb: In winters, when most Himalayan peaks are inaccessible, Kedarkantha comes alive. It is the first winter trek that Indiahikes opened in 2011 , and it remains close to our hearts.
The finest summit climb for beginners
Kedarkantha is one of the most iconic summit treks in India. It provides the perfect opportunity for beginners to feel the thrill of climbing a mountain peak.
We can hardly think of any other peak trek that can be attempted by beginners. Maybe Deoriatal Chandrashila comes close. But it is more about the views from the summit and the forests leading to it. The final push, being on a pilgrim trail, doesn’t feel as wild and raw as it is at Kedarkantha.
play video
What do treks like Kedarkantha look like in Jan and Feb? Find out here .
You catch your first glimpse of the Kedarkantha peak right at the start of the trek. Soon after, the trail leads you into a beautiful forest that briefly hides the summit from view. As you emerge from the forest, the peak looms over you again. It is from the Bhoja Dadi campsite that the steep climb to the summit begins. It’s a tough ascent, especially in winter snow. But it feels more thrilling than daunting—a challenge that draws you in rather than holds you back. Reaching the summit is a deeply rewarding experience. The views are spectacular with Mt. Swargarohini, the Bandarpoonch massif, Mount Kalanag and the Gangotri massif lining the horizon.
Read more
expand overview
You catch your first glimpse of the Kedarkantha peak right at the start of the trek. Soon after, the trail leads you into a beautiful forest that briefly hides the summit from view. As you emerge from the forest, the peak looms over you again. It is from the Bhoja Dadi campsite that the steep climb to the summit begins. It’s a tough ascent, especially in winter snow. But it feels more thrilling than daunting—a challenge that draws you in rather than holds you back. Reaching the summit is a deeply rewarding experience. The views are spectacular with Mt. Swargarohini, the Bandarpoonch massif, Mount Kalanag and the Gangotri massif lining the horizon.
But Kedarkantha isn’t just about the summit. You walk through pristine forests of pines, oaks, and maples. You camp in stunning clearings with wide-open views and unforgettable sunsets. You get a rare glimpse into the lifestyle of the villagers in Kotgaon.
In winter, when most Himalayan summits are shut down by heavy snow, Kedarkantha remains open. It’s a one-of-a-kind chance to summit a Himalayan peak in peak winter. That’s what makes it special. That’s what makes Kedarkantha India’s most popular winter trek.
But we often forget that Kedarkantha is an equally beautiful trek in the other seasons.
In spring, the forests above Kotgaon burst to life with blooming rhododendrons and birdsong. By summer, the clearings at Khujai and Bhoja Dhadi, along with the surrounding forests, turn lush and green. As the season moves on, wildflowers start to show up along the trail. In autumn, the whole landscape changes. The forests turn golden with shades of yellow, brown, and red. Instead of snow, you trek through grassy meadows and rocky patches on your way to the top. The Kedarkantha peak still stands tall, calling you to take on the climb. And when you reach the summit, the views are crystal clear.
At Indiahikes, we have witnessed the Kedarkantha trek across seasons over many years. No matter when you choose to trek, Kedarkantha always seems to be the perfect mix of beauty and challenge.
It’s not without reason that we call it the finest summit climb for beginners.
5 Things We Love About the Kedarkantha Trek
1) The Quaint Village of Kotgaon
The first thing you notice when you reach Kotgaon is the Someshwar Temple, right in the middle of the village. With its beautiful wooden carvings and the Swargarohini peaks rising behind it, surrounded by layers of Himalayan mountains, it’s a sight that stays with you. From our campus, you also get a lovely view of the terraced fields — it’s peaceful and picture-perfect. Staying here on the first and last nights of the trek gives you a chance to meet the villagers and get a feel for their way of life. Their unique Koti Banal homes, traditional clothing, and simple lifestyle offer a glimpse into a culture that’s quietly thriving in the mountains.
2) Pristine Forests
The forests on the Kedarkantha trek, especially on the stretch from Kotgaon to Khujai, are among the most beautiful you will find. These forests feel untouched and wild, with their dense canopy, sprawling roots, and diverse flora. The play of sunlight filtering through the trees creates a magical atmosphere. In winter, the forests turn into a quiet wonderland. Tree branches and hanging moss are draped in a soft, magical layer of snow. Most birds and animals move to lower elevations during this time, leaving the forest still and silent, especially during or just after a snowfall. Walking through this hushed, snow-covered world is an experience that lingers long after the trek is over.
3) Stunning Clearings and Campsites
The Kedarkantha Trek is full of clearings. These wide, open spaces suddenly appear in the middle of dense forests — perfect for taking a break or setting up camp. You do see clearings on other Himalayan treks, but none quite like the ones on Kedarkantha. They’re bigger, beautifully laid out, and each one has its charm. You camp in a few of them during the trek. And the sunsets from these spots — especially from Bhoja Dhadi — are some of the most stunning you’ll ever witness.
4) Multiple Routes
As a standalone mountain, Kedarkantha offers multiple routes to the summit, each with its beauty. This gives trekkers the flexibility to choose quieter trails or adapt their plans based on weather conditions. These multiple options, each with its unique highlights, add to the allure of the trek.
5) The Summit Climb
The Kedarkantha summit climb is what makes this trek truly special. From the base camp, the summit is always visible, building excitement for the final ascent. The steep, challenging climb keeps you engaged, and the views of the upper Himalayas along the way make every step worth it. Reaching the summit gives you an immense sense of accomplishment that few other treks offer.
Without a doubt, Kedarkantha has rightfully emerged as one of India's most famous Himalayan treks.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Kedarkantha : Take on the adventure of trekking to Kedarkantha, The finest summit climb for beginners, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Kotgaon Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Kotgaon on Day 1 to dinner at Kotgaon on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹2600 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Kedarkantha - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Kedarkantha trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary (Kotgoan route)
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Distance: 195 km | Duration: 10-11 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Pick up Time: 6.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Kotgaon
Transport will be arranged at 6.30 AM. Cost of the cab – Rs 1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Kotgaon to Khujaai
Trek Distance: 5.3 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude Gain: 6,400 ft to 9,460 ft
Day 3
Trek from Khujaai to Bhoja Dhadi
Trek Distance: 3 km | Trek Duration: 3.5 hours | Altitude Gain: 9,460 ft to 10,700 ft
Day 4
Trek from Bhoja Dhadi to Khujaai via Kedarkantha Summit
Trek Distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude Gain: 10,700 ft to 9,460 ft via 12,500 ft
Day 5
Trek from Khujaai to Kotgaon
Trek Distance: 5.3 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude Loss: 9,460 ft ft to 6,400 ft
Day 6
Drive back from Kotgaon to Dehradun
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Drop off for Indiahikes trekkers: Place - Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun (6 pm)
This transport cost has to be borne by trekkers. Cost of the cab – Rs 1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look (Kotgaon route)
Complete day-wise guide
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Drive Distance: 195 km
Altitude: 6,520 ft
The trek begins at Kotgaon. The journey takes you past Mori and Purola. You see beautiful valleys and forest cover throughout the journey.
At the Naitwar Barrier, you need to take permission. A government-issued ID is essential for this. Take the road that goes straight towards Sankri. Take a right turn in about 30 minutes.
This takes you to Kotgaon surrounded by small hamlets called Shialdi, Paisar, Guradi, Suchan Gaon, Dargar Gaon and Dewara. The guest house where you will be staying is in Shialdi.
Read More
The trek begins at Kotgaon. The journey takes you past Mori and Purola. You see beautiful valleys and forest cover throughout the journey.
At the Naitwar Barrier, you need to take permission. A government-issued ID is essential for this. Take the road that goes straight towards Sankri. Take a right turn in about 30 minutes.
This takes you to Kotgaon surrounded by small hamlets called Shialdi, Paisar, Guradi, Suchan Gaon, Dargar Gaon and Dewara. The guest house where you will be staying is in Shialdi.
Roam around this quaint village and be enchanted by the sound of the Tons river.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Trek from Kotgaon to Khujaai
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 5.5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 2,940 ft (6,520 ft to 9,460 ft)
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Gradual ascent in the forest till Mohlani meadows. A combination of ascents and descent to Khujaai
Highlights: Mohlani meadow. It’s a huge clearing with a grand view of the surroundings.
The trek starts from Kotgaon. Start off from the road that goes towards right from the Kotgaon campus. About a kilometre of walk on the road leads to a small suspension bridge. Watch out for the beautiful views of the valley on your left. Just before the suspension bridge, the trail deviates towards the right. Take this trail.
Now, you enter the dense forest. This is a beautiful section predominantly of oak trees. Gradually ascend in the dense jungle for about an hour. You come across a small clearing surrounded by bushes and trees. This is your first resting point.
The forest section continues. It’s a bit of an ascent from here. Savor every bit of it. Listen to the sound of the wind, chirping birds and the rustling of leaves. In another hour, you reach Mohlani meadows. This is a huge clearing and opens up on one side to the grand views of the hills. It is surrounded by tall pine trees on other sides. There is a small Matrishakti Mandir. There is a water source too. Replenish your water supplies here.
Read More
The trek starts from Kotgaon. Start off from the road that goes towards right from the Kotgaon campus. About a kilometre of walk on the road leads to a small suspension bridge. Watch out for the beautiful views of the valley on your left. Just before the suspension bridge, the trail deviates towards the right. Take this trail.
Now, you enter the dense forest. This is a beautiful section predominantly of oak trees. Gradually ascend in the dense jungle for about an hour. You come across a small clearing surrounded by bushes and trees. This is your first resting point.
The forest section continues. It’s a bit of an ascent from here. Savor every bit of it. Listen to the sound of the wind, chirping birds and the rustling of leaves. In another hour, you reach Mohlani meadows. This is a huge clearing and opens up on one side to the grand views of the hills. It is surrounded by tall pine trees on other sides. There is a small Matrishakti Mandir. There is a water source too. Replenish your water supplies here.
Continue in the forest section again for half an hour to reach another small clearing. From here, it’s a bit of a descent. Listen to the sounds of the gushing water stream. Within a few minutes, you come across a small wooden bridge. Cross the bridge and start ascending. About 15-20 minutes of gradual ascent from here takes you to the Khujaai campsite.
The Khujaai campsite is a huge clearing in the middle of dense forest. This is where you spend the rest of the day. Explore around a bit. To your right, you can see the next day’s trail. To your left, there is a cattle space and shepherds’ huts. A little ahead from this is a space where there are a lot of boulders. You can sit and enjoy the view from here. If the weather permits, do not miss out on views of the starlit sky at night.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek from Khujaai to Bhoja Dhadi
Trek Duration: 3.5 hours | Trek Distance: 3.5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 1,280 ft (9,460 ft to 10,700 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. A combination of ascents and descents in the forest and meadows.
Highlights: Stunning sunset views from Bhoja Dhadi
Start the trek from the trail that goes to the right in the south-west direction from Khujaai. About a kilometre of an ascent in the forest section takes you to Tatalona meadows. It’s a beautiful clearing. Rest here for sometime.
From the meadows, about 600 metres of a descent takes you to a water stream. The gushing stream, the boulders and all of this in the middle of a dense forest makes it a beautiful setting.
Cross this stream. The trail further is again an ascent in the forest section. It can get slippery when it rains. So be mindful of your footing. In about 20 minutes you will reach another small clearing.
Read More
Start the trek from the trail that goes to the right in the south-west direction from Khujaai. About a kilometre of an ascent in the forest section takes you to Tatalona meadows. It’s a beautiful clearing. Rest here for sometime.
From the meadows, about 600 metres of a descent takes you to a water stream. The gushing stream, the boulders and all of this in the middle of a dense forest makes it a beautiful setting.
Cross this stream. The trail further is again an ascent in the forest section. It can get slippery when it rains. So be mindful of your footing. In about 20 minutes you will reach another small clearing.
Take a steep right turn here. The trail now is through boulders. About another 100 metres of a descent takes you to another water stream. Cross this stream and start your final ascent to Dhoka. It’s another 700 metres of an ascent in the forest section.
Dhoka in Garhwali means “meadow with a big boulder”. Aptly, it is a huge meadow with one big boulder at one end. From here onwards, snow-clad mountains start making their appearance.
A little ahead of Dhoka is Bhoja Dhadi, where you stay for the night. Do not miss the alpen glow on these peaks during sunset. You can also see Kedarkantha summit up ahead of you.
Take a good rest as tomorrow will be a long day.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Trek from Bhoja Dhadi to Khujaai via Kedarkantha Summit
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance: 9 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 1,760 ft ⇘ 3,040 ft (10,700 ft to 9,460 ft via 12,500 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. 2-3 hour steep ascent to reach the summit. Steep descent to Khujaai
Highlights: Stunning views of the Himalayan ranges from the summit.
There is a trail on the right of Bhoja Dhadi campsite. Start ascending on this trail. Soon, you will reach a section of beautiful rhododendron trees. Meander your way through them to reach a clearing in about 500 metres.
Now you are almost out of the treeline. Continue ascending on a grassy trail. The trail slowly transitions from grassy to muddy. Be cautious as it could get slippery. Ascend in a zigzag manner.
You will soon reach a point where the trail from Sankri joins. It’s a steep ascent from here onwards to all the way up to the summit. You see the Phulara ridge on your left from here. It takes around 2.5-3 hours to reach the summit from Bhoja Dhadi.
Read More
There is a trail on the right of Bhoja Dhadi campsite. Start ascending on this trail. Soon, you will reach a section of beautiful rhododendron trees. Meander your way through them to reach a clearing in about 500 metres.
Now you are almost out of the treeline. Continue ascending on a grassy trail. The trail slowly transitions from grassy to muddy. Be cautious as it could get slippery. Ascend in a zigzag manner.
You will soon reach a point where the trail from Sankri joins. It’s a steep ascent from here onwards to all the way up to the summit. You see the Phulara ridge on your left from here. It takes around 2.5-3 hours to reach the summit from Bhoja Dhadi.
Once you are at the summit, you’re surrounded by the mountain ranges and valleys. You see the Rupin and Har ki Dun valleys. You see Mt Swargarohini, Mt Bandarpoonch and Mt Kalanag predominantly. You see Jaonli, Gangotri, Draupadi Ka Danda and Jorkanden peaks at a distance.
After spending some time at the summit, retrace your way back to Dhoka and further to Khujaai.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from Khujaai to Kotgaon
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 5.3 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 2,940 ft (9,460 ft to 6,520 ft)
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. A gradual descent through a narrow forest trail.
Highlights: Lovely dense oak forest
From Khujaai, you find a trail going further down. It’s a descent all the way to the Kotgaon.
It’s a narrow trail in the dense forest section, consisting predominantly of oak trees. Savour the forest walk for one last time, as today is the last day of your trek.
Retrace the way back to Kotagon from here and stay at the Indiahikes Community Campus for the day.
Read More
From Khujaai, you find a trail going further down. It’s a descent all the way to the Kotgaon.
It’s a narrow trail in the dense forest section, consisting predominantly of oak trees. Savour the forest walk for one last time, as today is the last day of your trek.
Retrace the way back to Kotagon from here and stay at the Indiahikes Community Campus for the day.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Drive from Kotgaon to Dehradun
Duration: 9-10 hours | Drive Distance: 195 km
Start early in the morning, preferably before 7.00 AM since the journey takes at least 10 hours. Plan your travel from Dehradun post 7.00 PM on this day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Start early in the morning, preferably before 7.00 AM since the journey takes at least 10 hours. Plan your travel from Dehradun post 7.00 PM on this day.
go to previous day Day 5
Quick Itinerary (Gaichawan gaon route)
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
DAY 1: Drive from Dehradun to Gaichawan Gaon
Drive Distance: 195 km | Duration: 10-11 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Pick up Time: 6.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Gaichawan Gaon
Transport will be arranged at 6.30 AM. Cost of the cab – Rs 1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
DAY 2: Trek from Gaichawan Gaon to Julota
Trek Distance: 5.5 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude Gain: 5,600 ft to 8,950 ft
DAY 3: Trek from Julota to Pukhrola
Trek Distance: 3 km | Trek Duration: 3-4 hours | Altitude Gain: 8,950 ft to 10,800 ft
DAY 4: Trek from Pukhrola to Akhoti Thach via Kedarkantha Summit
Trek Distance: 8 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude Gain: 10,800 ft to 9,170 ft via 12,500 ft
DAY 5: Trek from Akhoti Thach to Gaichawan Gaon
Trek Distance: 7.2 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude Loss: 9,170 ft to 5,600 ft
DAY 6: Drive back from Gaichawan Gaon to Dehradun
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 10-11 hours
Drop off point: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Drop off Time: 7 pm
Transport will be arranged at 6.30 AM. Cost of the cab – Rs 1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
How Does Each Day Look (Gaichawan gaon route)
Complete day-wise guide
toggle accordion
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Dehradun to Gaichawan
Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Drive Distance: 195 km
The drive begins along the Yamuna river ahead of Dehradun. It then takes you to the valley of Tons, past Mori and Purola. You see beautiful valleys and pine forests throughout the journey.
At the Netwar Barrier, you need to take permission. A government-issued ID is essential for this. After the barrier, take a right turn towards to Gaichawan Gaon. The road that goes straight takes you to Sankri.
Gaichawan Gaon is known as the Apple Valley of this district of Mori. You will see sprawling apple plantations in this quaint village, tucked away in the Tons Valley.
Our homestay at Gaichawan Gaon is a cultural hotspot. The grain bank, called Kothar, is almost a hundred years old. in the basecamp. There are underground levels for different types of grain. Under that, there is another floor section to keep ration.
Explore the village and rest well to prepare for the trek that lies ahead.
Day 2: Trek from Gaichawan to Julota
Trek Duration: 5.5 hours | Trek Distance: 5.2 km | Altitude Gain: 5,570 ft to 8,920 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent for 2 to 2.5 hours followed by a steep ascent
There’s a motorable road to Haltwar which is a work in progress. From Gaichawan Gaon, you will have to stick to the villager’s path that goes through apple orchards and farmlands. The Suchan Gaon and Dargar Gaon villages are unique in their culture, in their architecture and lifestyle. Haltwar is at a distance of 3 km from Gaichawan Gaon if you come through these villages and 6 km via the motorable road.
Haltwar is a small village with few houses. It has come age-old Koti Banal architecture homes. You also get beautiful views of the Rupin Valley from here. Experience local cuisine such as siddu in one of Dhabas in Haltwar. We recommend Kamlesh Ji’s dhaba because he maintains a strict no-packaged food policy.
From Haltwar, the trail first goes inside a light forest that ascends gradually. In some time, you see a beautiful clearing amidst pines and oaks. Soon you see a wooden bridge over a stream bed. There’s a water source here to refill your water bottles.
After the clearing, you enter a dense forest of pine and oak. The trail from here on gets gradually steeper and more like a staircase made of slabs of rock. After gaining some altitude, the incline becomes more gradual.
Trek silently. Listen to the birds chirping around you. Follow the trail through maples and rhododendrons until you reach another lovely clearing. This second clearing indicates about you getting closer to the campsite of Julota.
From here it is a gradual ascent until you start noticing few dome shaped tents. This is your Julota campsite. It is a stunning clearing amidst the forest. If you reach on time, you get to witness an incredible sunset.
Day 3: Trek from Julota to Pukhrola
Trek Duration: 3.5 hours | Trek Distance: 3.50 km | Altitude Gain: 8,920 ft to 10,870 ft
Difficulty : Easy. Half a kilometre ascent to a meadow followed by half a kilometre of a level walk. Gradual ascent which becomes steep for the last 300 meters to Pukhrola.
Highlights : A moderate climb through forests and clearings followed by a rewarding sunset
Today’s trek is quite short but there’s close to 2,000 ft of altitude gain through a couple of bigger clearings. So remember to keep yourself hydrated well. The trail is steep.
The trek starts with passing through some charming golden oaks. The fallen wooden log with moss and smaller being living transports you to another world.
Within 400 metres of Julota, you reach a clearing. Pass this clearing and walk for another 400 metres to reach the next clearing. This is called Shiun Ka Thatch.
The trail again goes through a thick forest section of Oaks and opens into a much bigger clearing called Moru Ka Thatch. You will see a dhaba near the end of the clearing where you can try the local dishes of Siddu, Sidku or Pua. Take a short break here to enjoy the serenity of the place.
After Moru Ka Thatch, you trek through a tree-covered area on steep terrain. The tree cover slowly loses density and you see Rhododendron and drawf rhododendron trees. You will cross a few streams on the trail. It is colorful in Spring and snowy capped in Winter making it a perfect forest to spend time in.
In 45 minutes to an hour, you reach an amphitheatre-like setting. You can see a lot of mountain ridges from this meadow. This is Pukhrola, our new base in Kedarkantha. You can also see the Kedarkantha summit up ahead of you.
Take a good rest and enjoy the picturesque sunset here. Do not miss the night sky with billions of stars above you.
Note: The cold in the open is intense and it often gets windy. Ensure you layer up once you reach the campsite to trap the heat after your trek.
Day 4: Trek from Pukhrola to Akhoti Thatch via Kedarkantha Summit
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance: 9 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 10,870 ft to 8,270 ft via 12,500 ft
Difficulty : Moderate. 2-3 hour steep ascent to reach the summit. Steep descent to Akhoti Thatch.
Highlights : Stunning views of the Himalayan ranges from the summit.
Today you make the final push towards the summit. Start from Pukhrola at 4.00 AM.
The route goes on the western ridge of the mountain and it gets steep at multiple points. Climb in a zigzag way in such places. It takes 2-3 hours to reach the summit by this route. On the summit, you are surrounded by mountain ranges and valleys.
You see the Chainsheel Pass, Rupin valley, and Har Ki Dun Valley. Mt Swargarohini also comes into view along with Mt Bandarpoonch and Mt Kalanag. Some of the other peaks you see include Jaonli, Gangotri, Draupadi Ka Danda and Jorkanden.
After spending some time on the summit, retrace your way to Pukhrola. Reach Pukhrola by lunchtime. Have lunch and trek down to Akhoti Thatch.
Akhoti Thatch campsite is 2 km from Pukhrola. It will take 2.5-3 hours to complete this stretch through the forest section. A slight deviation from the trail towards Pukhrola takes you on the trail towards Akhoti Thatch. This campsite is a nice big clearing amidst walnut trees and hence the name.
Day 5: Trek from Akhoti Thatch to Gaichawan
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 4 km | Altitude Loss: 8,270 ft to 5,570 ft
Difficulty : Easy. Gradual descent all the way.
Highlights : Beautiful Oak and Rhododendron forests. View of Kedarkantha Peak from afar.
After breakfast, start moving towards Gaichawan. This is 6 km from Akhoti Thatch. The trail after Akhoti Thatch and till reaching Haltwar is untouched and serene.
The trail goes through thick Oak and Rhododendron forests. There are a few small clearings and river streams while on the way down. The trail is not that well-made because not too many trekkers come here.
After 2 hours and almost 2 km of descent from Akhoti Thatch, we reach an opening with shepherd huts. Take a small break here before starting your next phase of the descent.
This next section is a thrilling experience for trekkers to cross. You have a small waterfall which needs to be traversed carefully. There is space for only one trekker to navigate on the trail here. If you are lucky, you can catch glimpses of Martins and red foxes in the early morning.
The route descends further towards Haltwar, which is one and a half hours away. While on the way to Haltwar, you can see Gaichawan Gaon from a small opening in the forest. It takes another 1.5 hours to reach Gaichawan Gaon as you end your memorable experience of trekking to Kedarkantha.
Day 6: Drive from Gaichawan Gaon back to Dehradun
Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Drive Distance: 195 km
Start early in the morning, preferably before 7.00 AM since the journey takes at least 10 hours. Plan your travel from Dehradun post 7.00 PM on this day.
How Difficult is the Kedarkantha Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy-Moderate
Suitable for Beginners
You will cover a total of around 23 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 6,100 ft (6,400 ft to 12,500 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. There are certain steep sections spread out, but when well-prepared, they are easy to tackle.
The Terrain:
The Kedarkantha summit climb is long and steep. This means about 7-8 hours of trekking on the summit day, involving 5 hours of steady climb and 2-3 hours of fast descent. This is challenging on the legs and you need a good level of fitness to comfortably finish this day.
Trekking in Kedarkantha in winter can be tricky. As you step out of the campsites early in the morning, the snow is going to be hard, having frozen overnight. This snow section continues until you get to the Kedarkanha summit, and only gets steeper as you climb.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can significantly alter the dynamics of a trek. Rain can turn the trails slushy and difficult to navigate safely, while snowfall can block previously established paths, requiring new tracks to be carved through the snow. This can add to the challenge, especially during the summit climb.
Kotgaon is one of our coldest base villages. Its unique location keeps Kotgaon in shade for a very long time even after sunrise, as a hill blocks the first light of the day.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
There is a rapid gain in altitude of around 6,100 ft from Kotgaon to the Kedarkantha summit (6,400 ft to 12,500 ft) within 4 trekking days. For all altitudes, above 12,000 ft, you will be prone to Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS) .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
You can exit the trek from Sankri, Kotgaon or Gaichawan Gaon. In case of an emergency, the closest exit point to the hospital would be Kotgaon. It is also the nearest roadhead when compared to the other exit points of the trek.
The three trails in Kedarkantha are interconnected. There are multiple bridging routes in between to move from one route to the other within the trek. However, this requires extensive knowledge of the trails to navigate. So, we strongly recommend against switching a route unless you are with a team who knows the trek like the back of their hand.
Closest Hospital to the Kedarkantha Trek:
For mild medical issues, the closest medical assistance can be found in Mori and then in Purola. This includes simple fractures, sprains etc. However, for major medical emergencies, the nearest hospital is in Mussoorie or Dehradun – which is almost 8-9 hours away from the base camp of the trek.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Kedarkantha Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Kedarkantha trek is one of the few treks in the Indian Himalayas where you can trek for the most part of the year. Kedarkantha trek is accessible for 10 months of the year except for July and August (the peak rainy months in Uttarakhand).
The 10 months cover four different seasons –
Winter – December to February
Spring – March and April
Summer – May and June
Autumn – Mid September to November
Each of these seasons has something very different to offer in terms of terrain, difficulty and weather.
Kedarkantha in Winter (December, January and February)
Day time: Between 8 °C and 10 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -10 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow from the base camp towards the end of December. The entire landscape and valley will be in white.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers.
Kedarkantha is most popular as a winter trek and it is rightly so. The beautiful snow-covered landscape and an adventurous summit climb especially in the winter can make anyone go weak in the knees. It was discovered, documented and brought out to Indian trekking by Indiahikes as a winter trek.
Kedarkantha is a perfect winter trek – especially for beginners. What makes it perfect is how it brings about beauty and adventure together in the right proportion. You get to trek through dense forests that are covered with snow. You will learn to camp in clearings on thick mounds of snow.
The summit climb will get your adrenaline kicking with the thick blanket of snow to the summit. These make the trek in winter a memorable and a unique experience even for experienced trekkers.
Note: Kedarkantha trek gets extremely crowded from the Sankri side starting December 15th until mid-January.
Read Vikash Lavaniya's Blog on Kedarkantha - 7 Lessons My First Winter Trek Taught
Kedarkantha in Spring (March and April)
Day time: Between 15 °C and 18 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and 5 °C.
Great time to experience the last of the winter snow. The snow starts to recede from the lower campsites when spring sets. The upper reaches of Kedarkantha are still under snow.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers.
Kedarkantha in March still carries quite a bit of snow – especially the higher campsites towards the summit. What you will also see are the Rhododendrons and the freshly exposed grasslands blooming. This is a sight to watch especially when you see the flush of colours in contrast against the snow backdrop as you climb higher.
Snow melts away by April in Kedarkantha. Kedarkantha in April is a must to experience the beautiful landscape come alive after its long winter hibernation. The weather is much more pleasant to trek and camp in and the spring is in full force during this month. There is a riot of colours all along the way.
Kedarkantha in Summer (May and June)
Day time: Between 18 °C and 24 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 3 °C and 8 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find any snow in the summer season.
No. of warm layers required: 2 warm layers.
Kedarkantha in May is marked with bright sun in the morning. In the evenings, the cold is not as harsh as in the other months.
Kedarkantha in June has occasional rainfall. Monsoon sets in only in July. The entire trek turns lush green.
In May and June, crowds are less as most of them are now moving towards the higher altitude treks. All in all, a great time to trek if you are looking to enjoy the trek in more isolation.
Kedarkantha in Autumn (September, October and November)
Day time: Between 10 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -5 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find any snow in the autumn season.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers.
Right after the monsoon, the entire trek comes alive in September. The meadows and the forests are fresh and alive during September and continue to be so in October as well. The air is crisp and the views of the upper Himalayas are strikingly clear.
The trek does get cold as we proceed towards November. And the feeling of incoming winter sets in during November. The views and the terrain remains crisp and beautiful for the trekker.
All in all, the ten months are ideal for anyone to do the trek.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Kedarkantha Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Kotgaon is the base camp of the Kedarkantha Trek. Kotgaon is a picturesque village situated in the Mori Tehsil of the Uttarkashi district in Uttarakhand, India. Nestled in the upper Tons Valley, it offers stunning views of the surrounding Himalayan peaks, including the Swargarohini range. It is around 200 km from Dehradun and takes around 10 hours to reach by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 6.30 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
How to reach Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities.
The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Kotgaon the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Kotgaon on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Kotgaon. You first need to reach Mori or Sankri and then take a shared jeep to Kotgaon.
Option 1: Dehradun to Sankri and Onwards to Kotgaon
There are three direct bus services from Dehradun to Sankri
The Private Buses depart at 5 AM and 6 AM while the Government Bus leaves Dehradun at 8 AM
Please note that all of them start from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 8-9 hrs to reach Sankri from Dehradun
From Sankri, it is just 5 km to Kotgaon. Even if you don’t get shared jeeps, you can hire private taxis to reach Kotgaon, without burning a hole in your pocket.
Option 2: Dehradun to Mori and Onwards to Kotgaon
There is one direct bus service from Dehradun to Mori
The Bus starts at 9 AM from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 6-7 hrs to reach Mori from Dehradun
From Mori, you get shared vehicles to Kotgaon. You can also hire a private taxi.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Kedarkantha Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Kedarkantha Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kedarkantha Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Kedarkantha Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 40 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How long is Kedarkantha trek? expand accordion
Kedarkantha Trek is an 18 km long trek that spans over 4 days (6 if you include the travel days from Dehradun and back). On the first day, you trek for about 5 km for about 4 hours. The second day is shorter where you trek for about 2 km over 2 hours.
The third day is the longest day of the trek as you trek to the summit and come back to the next campsite. On this day, you trek about 6 km over 6-7 hours. On the last day, you trek for 5-6 km again over 5 hours.
What is the height of Kedarkantha trek? expand accordion
Kedarkantha trek reaches a maximum altitude/height of 12500 ft. Depending on the starting point, there are three altitudes you start the trek from:
Sankri – 6,455 ft
Kotgaon – 6,520 ft
Gaichawan Gaon – 5,600 ft
From the starting point, the trek climbs a height/altitude of more or less 6,000 ft during the length. You steadily climb up the first three days of the trek till the summit and climb down on the last two days. Please check the short/detailed itinerary to understand the trek in more detail.
Is Kedarnatha and Kedarkantha the same? expand accordion
Kedarnath and Kedarkantha are not the same. The distance between Kedarkantha and Kedarnath is around 370 km by road. They are a 12-hour-journey away from each other.
Kedarkantha is a Himalayan summit in the Govind Pashu Vihar National Park in Uttarakhand. It is a popular trekking trail that takes trekkers to the top of a summit, from where you see fantastic views of the Garhwal Himalayas. It is known for its beautiful forest trails, pretty campsites and the remote villages on the trail.
Kedarnath, on the other hand, is a revered Hindu temple in Uttarakhand. It is considered one of the 12 most sacred Shiva Temples in the world (the Jyotirlingas). It has enormous religious and mythological significance, attracting pilgrims from all over the world.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 48 minutes.
Do I get network on the Kedarkantha trek? expand accordion
Network and connectivity are sparse in Kedarkantha. But there are few locations where you can rely on a good network for communication on the trek route.
Is there an ATM close to the Kedarkantha trek? expand accordion
The last ATM en route to the base camp is in Mori. Mori has an SBI bank with an ATM attached to it. However, the ATM is empty of cash many times. In such a case, you may head out to an SBI authorized cash withdrawal centre. You can swipe your card and get cash from the person servicing the desk. This centre is located on the first floor, two buildings to the right of SBI.
Although Mori has this possibility, we strongly encourage trekkers to bring cash or to withdraw cash from the 3 ATMs available in Purola (SBI, ICICI and Axis Bank ATMs) .
Is there electricity on the Kedarkantha trek? expand accordion
Sankri/Gaichawan Gaon/Kotgaon are the last points that are electrically connected. However, the electricity is extremely intermittent and can be absent for most part of the day during winter/late summer (when the monsoon starts to set in).
So, we strongly encourage you to bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Pro Tip: Beware that the power from your batteries will drain faster in cold temperatures of this region. So, put the batteries in a small pouch and keep them inside your sleeping bag to keep them warm during the night.
Do I have a cloak room facility at Kedarkantha? expand accordion
At Kedarkantha, you have the opportunity to drop your luggage at the base camp for the duration of the trek. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage. (The luggage could be a backpack / suitcase / duffel bag or anything similar.).
At the end of the trek, the cloakroom belongings will be brought back to you.
Please do ensure that you do not leave valuables in our cloakroom facility. If you do so, do inform our staff so that they can take the necessary precautions to keep it safe.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Kedarkantha trek is Rs 1,600 for the trek without tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.