Khopra Ridge Trek 2026 | Often Voted Better Than ABC Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
KHOPRA RIDGE
Better than ABC. Trek with 22 Big Mountains
We've 2026 dates for Khopra Ridge trek in autumn. Scroll down to view dates.
If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click here to request a callback.
Highlights
The Annapurna–Dhaulagiri Panorama Khopra Ridge puts you between two of the world's greatest mountain massifs. The entire Annapurna range spreads to the east, with the perfect pyramid of Machapuchare rising in front of it. To the west, Dhaulagiri fills the horizon. Very few trails in Nepal offer this.
Nepal Without the Crowds This is the Annapurna region as it used to be — quiet trails, small teahouses, unhurried days. Trekkers who have done both consistently rate Khopra ahead of the Annapurna Circuit. Same great mountains, same Nepali warmth, without the noise
Rhododendrons in Spring In April, the ridgeline forests are consumed by rhododendrons — red, pink and white, blooming at altitude in one of the densest concentrations in the Annapurna region. With huge mountains framing the opening in these canopies, these are easily some of the finest Himalayan Vistas you’ll ever experience.
Better than ABC. Trek with 22 Big Mountains
For many decades now, the Annapurna Base Camp and Everest Base Camp treks have been the bucket list treks for most trekking. If you think about trekking in Nepal, these are the two treks that come to mind.
But there’s another trek, very close to Annapurna Base Camp and much more rewarding, and that’s the Khopra Ridge Trek. Why is it more rewarding?
You see 22 big mountains from the Khopra Ridge .
Read more
expand overview
You see 22 big mountains from the Khopra Ridge .
Out of which 2 are amongst the 14 highest mountains in the world – Mt Dhaulagiri I (7th highest)! and Mt Annapurna I (10th highest). But that’s not the full picture. You see the Annapurna massif at an arm’s distance (even closer than on the ABC trek). You see the Mt Machapuchare as glorious as ever. You see Mt Nilgiri North and South. There’s Mt Himchuli, Mt Ganga Purna, it’s endless!
Let’s not forget Mt Dhaulagiri. It is right in front of you!
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
Accommodation
Stay is included from Day 1 to Day 8 (Pokhara to Paudwar). You will be staying in tea houses on all days of the trek. There will be no camping on any of our Nepal treks.
Meals
All meals from dinner at Pokhara on Day 1 to breakfast at Paudwar on Day 9 are included. We provide simple, nutritious vegetarian food on all days of the trek.
Camping Charges
All trek permit charges are included.
Trek Equipment
Technical equipment like ice axes, ropes, microspikes, gaiters etc., are also provided as and when required.
Safety Equipment
Your Trek Leader comes equipped with a High Altitude Medical Kit.
Trek Exclusions
Transport to and from the base camp
You will have to arrive at Pokhara on your own. Indiahikes will not take care of the flight tickets to and from Pokhara.
Transport from Pokhara to Kimsee and Tatopani to Pokhra
Transport will be arranged by Indiahikes, but the trekkers will have to share the cost. Approx Rs 2,500 INR per person including both the drives to the base camp (Pokhara).
Accommodation on Day 9
You won't be provided with an accommodation on Day 9 at Pokhra.
Trek insurance
For international treks, the insurance fee is not included in the trek cost. However, we highly recommend getting insurance. At Indiahikes, we trust ASC360 and recommend applying through them. Click here to know why .
Food during transit
Any food you have during your travel to and from the base camp is in your own expense.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
Indiahikes shall not be held responsible for any flight delays or cancellations. Flight recommendations provided by Indiahikes are for reference only, and trekkers are advised to verify schedules and make necessary arrangements independently.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the base camp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork. I may seek guidance from Indiahikes regarding the process; however, Indiahikes shall not be held liable if I am unable to obtain the required documents.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Khopra Ridge - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Khopra Ridge trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Khopra Ridge trek
Day 1
Reach Pokhara from Kathmandu
Drive distance: 215 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Stay for Indiahikes Trekkers: Pokhara Top and Top Hotel, Pokhara
You will reach Pokhara on your own by either taking a bus or flying in from Kathmandu. You are expected to reach by 4 pm. You will meet the rest of the team at Pokhara Top and Top Hotel. Your stay at Pokhara Top and Top Hotel is taken care of by Indiahikes. You don't need to pay extra for this.
Please note: We will only be serving dinner at Hotel Pokhara Top and Top after trekkers arrive post 4 pm.
Day 2
Drive from Pokhara to Kimsee. Trek to Ghandruk
Drive Distance: 56 km | Trek Duration: 2.5 hours | Altitude Gain: 2,760 ft to 5,440 ft
Trek Distance: 3.7 km | Trek Duration: 2 hours | Altitude Gain: 5,440 ft to 6,561 ft
Transport will be arranged by Indiahikes, but the trekkers will have to share the cost. Approx Rs 2,500 INR per person including both the drives to the base camp.
Day 3
Trek from Ghandruk to Tadapani
Trek Distance: 6.4 km | Trek Duration: 4.5 hours | Altitude Gain: 6,561 ft to 8,705 ft
Day 4
Trek from Tadapani to Dobato
Trek Distance: 6.2 km | Trek Duration: 6.5 hours | Altitude Gain: 8,705 ft to 11,225 ft
Day 5
Trek from Dobato to Chhistibang via Muldai Top
Trek Distance: 9.2 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude Gain & Loss: 11,220 ft to 9,678 ft via 11,811 ft
Day 6
Trek from Chhistibang to Khopra Ridge
Trek Distance: 3.5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Gain: 9,678 to 11,975 ft
Day 7
Trek from Khopra Ridge to Khayar Lake, and back to Khopra Ridge
Trek Distance: 16 km | Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,975 ft to 15,300 ft, and back to 11,975 ft
Day 8
Trek from Khopra Ridge to Paudwar via Gorge Point
Trek Distance: 8.5 km | Trek Duration: 6.5 hours | Altitude Loss: 11,975 ft to 6,561 ft via
Day 9
Trek from Paudwar to Tatopani | Drive from Tatopani to Pokhra
Trek Distance: 4.7 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Gain: 6,561 ft to 3,871 ft
Bus Drive Distance: 110 km | Drive Duration: 5 hours
You will reach Pokhra by 7pm.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory:
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Trekking, by nature, is subject to last-minute uncertainty. Book flexible flight tickets so that you don't lose out on your flight charges in case of cancellations/rescheduling.
➤ Currency Exchange: For conversion, carry US-Dollars or INR 100-200 notes only. Currency notes for denominations of INR 500 and above are banned in Nepal. If you are converting currency in Kathmandu itself, the Thamel and Buddha Stupa areas have much better conversion dates than the rates offered at Kathmandu airport. Just convert a small amount, if needed, to get around at the airport.
➤ Carry your Photo-ID: It is mandatory for trekkers to carry a copy of their photo ID for entry at forest check posts on the trek.
➤ Stay on the Trek: At the base camp, your stay will be arranged in lodges. On the trek, you will be staying in tea houses. We won't be providing accommodation on the last day at Pokhara.
➤ Cloakroom: We do have a cloakroom facility at Pokhara. Trekkers are allowed to keep one bag per person. Any additional luggage will be charged Rs 500 per bag.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Day 9
Previous
Next
Day 1: Reach Pokhara from Kathmandu
Drive Duration: 7 hours | Drive Distance: 215 km
Altitude: 2,760 ft
Highlights: The drive through the rolling hills of Nepal. The lakeside near the hotel.
Reach Pokhara on your own before 4.00 PM. You can find different ways to reach Pokhara in the ‘Reaching the Basecamp’ section of the trek page.
Your stay in Pokhara Top and Top Hotel, Pokhara will be booked by Indiahikes. You don’t need to pay extra for this.
You will meet the rest of the team at the hotel. The briefing will be conducted at the hotel at 6.00 PM on Day 1.
Read More
Reach Pokhara on your own before 4.00 PM. You can find different ways to reach Pokhara in the ‘Reaching the Basecamp’ section of the trek page.
Your stay in Pokhara Top and Top Hotel, Pokhara will be booked by Indiahikes. You don’t need to pay extra for this.
You will meet the rest of the team at the hotel. The briefing will be conducted at the hotel at 6.00 PM on Day 1.
Go for a walk by the lakeside after the briefing and retire early after dinner. You’ll need to conserve energy for the long trek ahead!
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Drive from Pokhara to Kimsee. Trek to Ghandruk
Drive Distance: 56 km | Trek Duration: 2.5 hours
Trek Distance: 3.7 km | Trek Duration: 2 hours
Difficulty: Easy – Moderate. Gradual ascent from Kimsee to Ghandruk.
Highlights: The up close views of majestic mountains.
We’ll leave the hotel at 8.00 AM. The drive from Pokhara to Kimsee will take around 2.5 hours. You cover around 60 km during this time.
Have lunch at Kimsee before you begin the trek to Ghandruk.
The initial trail from Kimsee is narrow and runs through a village. The river to your left is Modi Khola. On the opposite side of the mountain, you can spot the trail for the Mardi Himal trek. Ghandruk becomes visible after 1.5 hours of trekking.
Read More
We’ll leave the hotel at 8.00 AM. The drive from Pokhara to Kimsee will take around 2.5 hours. You cover around 60 km during this time.
Have lunch at Kimsee before you begin the trek to Ghandruk.
The initial trail from Kimsee is narrow and runs through a village. The river to your left is Modi Khola. On the opposite side of the mountain, you can spot the trail for the Mardi Himal trek. Ghandruk becomes visible after 1.5 hours of trekking.
The trail continues to ascend gradually.
As you approach Ghandruk, after about another hour, the view starts opening up. You see Mt Himculi and Mt Annapurna south. This is just the beginning of mountain views. As you ascend some more, Mt Machapuchare (the ‘fishtail’ mountain) welcomes you. This is also an indication that you are very close to your first tea house.
Ghandruk is the largest village in the Annapurna Conservation Area (ACA). You will see old stone and slate-roofed houses lining the slope. You will also find a lot of tea houses spread through the entire village.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek from Ghandruk to Tadapani
Trek Duration: 4.5 hours | Trek Distance: 6.40 km
Altitude Gain: 6,561 ft to 8,705 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Mix of gradual ascent and level walk on forest trails.
Highlights: Beautiful rhododendron forests.
To go to Tadapani from Ghandruk, begin by walking through the narrow path running through the village. Within 5 minutes, you reach a junction. From here, the ACA is divided into two parts – Central ACA AND Western ACA. Central ACA leads to Kommorong and further ahead to ABC. For Tadapani, proceed on the Western ACA.
The trail here consists of steps cut into the rocks. After climbing for 10 minutes on these steps, you will reach the first viewpoint. This is the “Lovely viewpoint”. From here, you will be able to sight Mt Annapurna South, Mt Himchuli, Mt Ganga Purna, Mt Annapurna III and Mt Machapuchare (fishtail). These mountains stay with you on your right as you move ahead.
As you proceed on the trail, you enter a forest trail dominated by a variety of tall trees. Very soon you hear the faint sounds of a waterfall in the distance. The dense canopy of the trees above coupled with moist air from the flowing stream gives you a fresh respite. Rhododendron trees also make an appearance here. You will see big red flowers on these if you are trekking here in April.
Read More
To go to Tadapani from Ghandruk, begin by walking through the narrow path running through the village. Within 5 minutes, you reach a junction. From here, the ACA is divided into two parts – Central ACA AND Western ACA. Central ACA leads to Kommorong and further ahead to ABC. For Tadapani, proceed on the Western ACA.
The trail here consists of steps cut into the rocks. After climbing for 10 minutes on these steps, you will reach the first viewpoint. This is the “Lovely viewpoint”. From here, you will be able to sight Mt Annapurna South, Mt Himchuli, Mt Ganga Purna, Mt Annapurna III and Mt Machapuchare (fishtail). These mountains stay with you on your right as you move ahead.
As you proceed on the trail, you enter a forest trail dominated by a variety of tall trees. Very soon you hear the faint sounds of a waterfall in the distance. The dense canopy of the trees above coupled with moist air from the flowing stream gives you a fresh respite. Rhododendron trees also make an appearance here. You will see big red flowers on these if you are trekking here in April.
Follow the forest trail till you reach a small bridge. From here you get a perfect view of the source of the stream. Take a break here and refill your water bottles. The next section is a steep ascent for about 45 minutes.
As you climb up along the small waterfall, you will reach Bhaisi Kharka, a small village in the far western region of Nepal. This is 5 km from Ghandruk.
The rest of the day’s hike will take you through similar but denser forest trails. Rhododendrons dominate here. These are unusually high if you have only seen the shorter trees in the Indian Himalayas. At certain places, the branches of the trees intertwine on the top to form a gateway for the trail ahead.
Another 2 hours of trekking brings you to the tea houses at Tadapani. Have lunch here. End the day with a perfect sunset view of Mt Machapuchare.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Trek from Tadapani to Dobato
Trek Duration: 6.5 hours | Trek Distance: 6.2 km
Altitude Gain: 8,705 ft to 11,225 ft
Difficulty: Moderate-difficult. Gradual ascent through forest trails, with a short descent towards the beginning. Last one hour of the trail is above the tree line.
Highlights: A series of majestic mountains lined up one after the other.
Similar to the previous day, the trek starts today starts on a forest trail filled with rhododendrons and bamboo. The Annapurna range accompanies you on the right. As you trek further, the trail enters deep forests. Oaks appear here. Now, the trail descends. After about 30 minutes, you again start climbing up. This brings you very close to the tree line. From here, you can see the ridge which is a part of the trail from Dobato to Khopra Ridge.
After an hour’s climb, you reach Meshar. Fill your water bottles here. Straight ahead of you are Mt Annapurna (10th highest mountain in the world) and Mt Annapurna Fang (7,647 m). The 2 mountains remain visible for the next two hours, till you reach Isharu.
From Meshar, the trail gradually ascends till Isharu, the second viewpoint of the day. You are just above the tree line here. The views from Isharu are outstanding – the panorama includes Mt Annapurna II, Mt Annapurna IV, and Mt Ganesha Himal along with other peaks of the Annapurna range.
Read More
Similar to the previous day, the trek starts today starts on a forest trail filled with rhododendrons and bamboo. The Annapurna range accompanies you on the right. As you trek further, the trail enters deep forests. Oaks appear here. Now, the trail descends. After about 30 minutes, you again start climbing up. This brings you very close to the tree line. From here, you can see the ridge which is a part of the trail from Dobato to Khopra Ridge.
After an hour’s climb, you reach Meshar. Fill your water bottles here. Straight ahead of you are Mt Annapurna (10th highest mountain in the world) and Mt Annapurna Fang (7,647 m). The 2 mountains remain visible for the next two hours, till you reach Isharu.
From Meshar, the trail gradually ascends till Isharu, the second viewpoint of the day. You are just above the tree line here. The views from Isharu are outstanding – the panorama includes Mt Annapurna II, Mt Annapurna IV, and Mt Ganesha Himal along with other peaks of the Annapurna range.
The next hour till Dobato is a mix of ascent and descent. After reaching Dobato, have lunch at the teahouse.
After a short break, set out for the best place on this trek – the Muldhai peak viewpoint. There is a reason this place has such a reputation among locals. You see twenty-two snow peaks out of which two are among the fourteen highest mountains in the world – Mt Dhaulagiri I (7th highest) and Mt Annapurna I (9th highest). The complete Annapurna and Dhaulagiri range with Mt Tukuche and Mt Nilgiri North and South are a sight to behold, especially at sunset. If you want to witness this magic again, don’t forget to come back for sunrise the next day.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from Dobato to Chhiastibang via Muldai Top
Trek Distance: 9.2 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours
Altitude Gain & Loss: 11,220 ft to 9,678 ft via 11,811 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. A complete ridge walk with steep ascents till Chhistibang. You can refill your water bottles from streams and tea houses on the way.
Start early from Dobato since it’s a long day today. After 30 minutes of ascent, you will reach a junction. The trail to the right leads to the hidden lake and the one to the left goes to Khopra Ridge. Halt here and capture the last view of all the mountain peaks of the Annapurna range. Don’t worry, these mountain views will soon be replaced by the Dhaulagiri range.
Take the trail leading to Khopra ridge. After 15 minutes, the Dhaulagiri range appears to the left. This is also an indication that you are close to your first rest point, Muldai Top.
From Muldai Top, the trail descends for two hours through a forest. This brings you to Chhistibang, a tea house inside the forest. Have lunch here and rest for the day!
Read More
Start early from Dobato since it’s a long day today. After 30 minutes of ascent, you will reach a junction. The trail to the right leads to the hidden lake and the one to the left goes to Khopra Ridge. Halt here and capture the last view of all the mountain peaks of the Annapurna range. Don’t worry, these mountain views will soon be replaced by the Dhaulagiri range.
Take the trail leading to Khopra ridge. After 15 minutes, the Dhaulagiri range appears to the left. This is also an indication that you are close to your first rest point, Muldai Top.
From Muldai Top, the trail descends for two hours through a forest. This brings you to Chhistibang, a tea house inside the forest. Have lunch here and rest for the day!
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Trek from Chhistibang to Khopra Ridge
Trek Distance: 3.5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours
Altitude Gain: 9,678 ft to 11,975 ft
From Chhistibang, the trail ascends continuously. There are multiple small streams and small waterfalls all along. On both sides of the ridge, clouds form a small playground and enchant you with their changing forms. From here, every step towards Khopra takes you up close to the Dhaulagiri range. Watch the sun and clouds prepare for a perfect sunset.
On reaching Khopra, you see majestic mountain ranges all around you. Mt Annapurna South, Mt Annapurna Fang, Mt Annapurna I, Mt Nilgiri South and North, Mt Tukuche and the Dhaulagiri range welcome you. The tea house here itself is a viewpoint.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
From Chhistibang, the trail ascends continuously. There are multiple small streams and small waterfalls all along. On both sides of the ridge, clouds form a small playground and enchant you with their changing forms. From here, every step towards Khopra takes you up close to the Dhaulagiri range. Watch the sun and clouds prepare for a perfect sunset.
On reaching Khopra, you see majestic mountain ranges all around you. Mt Annapurna South, Mt Annapurna Fang, Mt Annapurna I, Mt Nilgiri South and North, Mt Tukuche and the Dhaulagiri range welcome you. The tea house here itself is a viewpoint.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Trek from Khopra Ridge to Khayar Lake, and back to Khopra Ridge
Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Trek Distance: 16 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 3,325 ft; ⇘ 3,325 ft (11,975 ft to 15,300 ft, and back to 11,975 ft)
Difficulty: Difficult. Starts with gradual ascent on a ridge and becomes steeper as you proceed. Carry two litres of water. After the first three hours, there are no water sources.
Highlights: The alpine lake at the foothills of Mt Annapurna South
Start early today. It’s the summit day and the longest day of the trek. The initial 45 mins is a level walk with scenic views of the Dhaulagiri range. The trail turns into a ridge walk with multiple climbs and descents for the next two hours. Take a look to your left – in addition to the Dhaulagiri range, you will see the world’s deepest valley, Kaligandaki, between Mt Tukuche and Mt Nilgiri North.
Slowly the trail brings you to an open field surrounded by barren mountains. This is similar to the cold desert landscape of Spiti in the Indian Himalayas. This also means that you are approaching Khayar lake.
A small dhaba at Khayar Ghat welcomes you with some local tea and snacks. From here, it is another 1.5 hours trek to Khayar lake. The trail ascends continuously from here, on steps. All along, there are symbols of a temple and bells clubbed together, which is a sign of khayar lake and mythological stories of the area. Before you see the lake, you see Mt Annapurna South. The lake is at its foothill.
Read More
Start early today. It’s the summit day and the longest day of the trek. The initial 45 mins is a level walk with scenic views of the Dhaulagiri range. The trail turns into a ridge walk with multiple climbs and descents for the next two hours. Take a look to your left – in addition to the Dhaulagiri range, you will see the world’s deepest valley, Kaligandaki, between Mt Tukuche and Mt Nilgiri North.
Slowly the trail brings you to an open field surrounded by barren mountains. This is similar to the cold desert landscape of Spiti in the Indian Himalayas. This also means that you are approaching Khayar lake.
A small dhaba at Khayar Ghat welcomes you with some local tea and snacks. From here, it is another 1.5 hours trek to Khayar lake. The trail ascends continuously from here, on steps. All along, there are symbols of a temple and bells clubbed together, which is a sign of khayar lake and mythological stories of the area. Before you see the lake, you see Mt Annapurna South. The lake is at its foothill.
The lake is surrounded by praying flags, bells and alone temple. Sit down here for a while and take in the surroundings. You have reached the highest point of the trek.
In July a yatra (pilgrimage) is undertaken by Nepalis who visit Khayar lake to seek fulfilment of wishes and sacrifice an animal to lord Shiva. They believe that if their wish comes true, they will have to return as a token of thanksgiving.
It will take around 3.5 to reach Khopra Ridge on the same trail. Have lunch at Khayar ghat on the way. Every step on the descent is an ideal spot to view the sunset.
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Trek from Khopra Ridge to Paudwar via Gorge Point
Trek Distance: 8.5 km | Trek Duration: 6.5 hours
Altitude Loss: 11,975 ft to 6,561 ft
go to previous day Day 7 Day 9 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 9: Trek from Paudwar to Tatopani | Drive from Tatopani to Pokhra
Trek Distance: 4.7 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours
Bus Drive Distance: 110 km | Drive Duration: 5 hours
Altitude Gain: 6,561 ft to 3,871 ft
Difficulty: Easy. Descent through the forests till Tatopani.
Highlights: Descent through the forests and water stream.
The last day of the trek takes you to Tatopani which falls on the old route for Mansarovar lake. Because of this, it is also known as the old pilgrimage route. It’s a completely easy descent through forests for initial 2 hours. Post that you walk along a water stream till the time you reach Tatopani. Your trek ends here. Take a bus and reach Pokhara.
Read More
go to previous day Day 8
The last day of the trek takes you to Tatopani which falls on the old route for Mansarovar lake. Because of this, it is also known as the old pilgrimage route. It’s a completely easy descent through forests for initial 2 hours. Post that you walk along a water stream till the time you reach Tatopani. Your trek ends here. Take a bus and reach Pokhara.
go to previous day Day 8
How Difficult is the Khopra Ridge Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate - Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You cover a total of around 58.2 km in eight trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 12,540 ft (2,760 ft to 15,300 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections on steep, uneven trails. Most days involve longer trekking durations.
Terrain:
Trails pass through dense forests, open ridges, and rugged moraine sections. This demands a careful footing, especially on rocky and uneven terrain.
The final climb up to Khopra Ridge, from Chhistibang is steep. You gain close to 2000 ft in elevation over just 3 km. This can test your endurance.
The final climb to Khayer Lake involves more than 3000 ft of elevation and takes you over 15,000 ft over sea level. The trail is rocky and involves trekking on loose scree. There are multiple sections prone to landslides and rockfalls.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Sudden rainfall can make trails muddy and slippery. You must carry rain gear and be cautious on wet, unstable paths.
Snowfall at higher altitudes (above 12,000 ft) can block paths, requiring new trails to be cut. Snow accumulation can also increase the risk of altitude sickness due to colder temperatures.
Mornings can be chilly with frost and slippery verglas formation.
In October, rain is a common occurrence. The rain also makes the trail slippery and tricky. Moreover, the force of water at river crossings can increase, making it challenging to cross them.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
There is a significant ascent from Tadapani to Khayer Lake via Khopra Ridge. You gain altitude rapidly, increasing your chance of getting hit by Acute Mountain Sickness.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
In case of emergencies, descend to lower altitudes. Villages along the route, such as Ghandruk and Tadapani, serve as evacuation points.
There is no easy road access in higher sections. Evacuations can take 8-9 hours by foot and vehicle. Helicopter rescues are an option but depend on weather conditions and availability.
Closest Hospital to the Khopra Ridge Trek:
Pokhara (approximately 8-9 hours away by road) has the nearest full-fledged medical facility. Trekkers with severe health issues may need to be transported to Kathmandu for advanced care.
Villages along the trek may have basic clinics, but they only provide first aid. These clinics lack proper equipment for treating altitude-related or serious medical emergencies.
For serious medical concerns, evacuation to Kathmandu may be required. It is crucial to have a proper travel insurance that covers high-altitude trekking and medical evacuations.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Khopra Ridge Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
There are two distinct seasons for the Khopra Ridge trek – April (Spring) and October (Autumn) .
Khopra Ridge in Spring (April)
Day time: Between 20 °C and 24 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 10 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: You may find snow patches on the trail.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
In Spring, although you will find patches of hard snow at higher altitudes, the temperature during the day will be slightly warmer than that in Autumn, when there won’t be any snow on the trek.
Even the air is different. While Spring is moist, Autumn is dry and crisp.
It’s that time of the year when winter has left the slopes. But, you will still find snow patches on the ground above 12,000 feet.
In Spring, expect pleasant daytime temperatures around 20 °C. But at night it dips to almost zero levels.
During the day if the sun goes behind the clouds and there is about of rain, then the temperature can fall to around 15 °C.
Khopra Ridge in Autumn (October)
Day time: Between 15 °C and 18 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 5 °C and -5 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow at this time of the year.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Autumn is slightly like winter. Colder than Summer, although you won’t find patches of snow.
Nights in Autumn get chilly. In October the temperature dips to 0° C.
During the day, you will experience temperatures around 15° C. But any rain or slight drizzle brings down the temperature by a few degrees. So keep a jacket handy with you always.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from India or any other country, book your flight tickets for Day Zero , which is the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 15 September, book your air tickets for 14 September to either Kathmandu/or Gorakhpur.
Option 1: Fly to Kathmandu and then fly to Pokhara
This is the quickest way to reach Pokhara is to reach Kathmandu and we recommend this, although it’s a bit expensive. Take a flight to Kathmandu and then another flight to Pokhara. It is a 40-minute flight from Kathmandu to Pokhara. Flights fly daily on this route between 8.00 am and 3.00 pm.
Tip: Here are a couple of websites where you can buy flight tickets. Yeti Airlines , Buddha Air and Simrik Air operate on this stretch. A single person’s return airfare is usually in the range of INR 5,500 – 9,000. This could vary depending on the airline and how early you buy your ticket.
Option 2: Fly to Kathmandu and then by bus/shared cab to Pokhara
Regular buses leave from Kathmandu at 15-minute intervals to Pokhara starting from 7.00 AM. Tourist buses cost between NPR 800-1200 per person and a ticket in local minibus costs between NPR 400-600 per person. The duration of the drive is between 5-and
7 hours. The drive winds through beautiful hillsides and valleys.
Option 3: Travel by land to Nepal – Fly/train to Gorakhpur, a shared cab to Sonauli and then bus to Pokhara
This is the cheapest way to reach Pokhara from India.
We understand that travelling to Kathmandu and then to Pokhara can be expensive. So we found a shorter and more budget-friendly way to travel to Pokhara that most trekkers are unaware of.
Take a flight or train from your city to Gorakhpur. Reach Gorakhpur before 1 pm on Day Zero.
Outside the Gorakhpur airport, take a shared cab to Sonauli. Sonauli is at the India-Nepal border. The travel distance from Gorakhpur to Sonauli is about 105 km and takes approximately 3 hrs to cover. It would cost around INR 300 to 500 per person.
On reaching the Sonauli Border, book your bus ticket for Pokhara. You will find the last buses leaving between 5.30 pm The bus rates vary from NPR 650. You will reach Pokhara the next day before 5.30 am. Or a shared cab to Pokhara costing Rs 800 which is more comfortable.
There are tourist buses that you can book for the morning. Buses ply only from 7 am to 10 am. So you will have to stay at Sonauli a day before the trek for this. Online bookings are not available. After this, you will find buses only during the evening time.
Planning your return flight/train booking
The trek ends at Tatopani at 2 pm, which is the road head.
Indiahikes will arrange transport from Lower Ghandruk to Pokhara. The cost is not included in the trek fee. You are expected to reach Pokhara by around 7-8 pm on day 9.
For your return journey: You can book a bus/ flight from Pokhara to Kathmandu the next day, after taking a night's rest in Pokhara or you can also take a bus the same night (but it might get too hectic). Followed by a Flight from Kathmandu to your respective location.
Planning your hotel/stay
Hotel options in Pokhara
➤ Hotel Paradise Inn
This is centrally located. It is near the main lake road with lots of shops away from the bus stand.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/KoTuLHDvKVjfvjVj9
There are many hotels close to Phewa Lake. So it is not difficult to find a place to stay. The cost will range from Rs 850 to Rs 1200
Hotel options in Kathmandu
➤ Alobar1000
Alobar1000 is one of the many youth hostels in Kathmandu. It has a good backpacking dorm and also private rooms.
Email id: [email protected]
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/KjsbNoKqK5ALNh2t8
Contact Number: +977-14410114
Website: https://alobar1000.wixsite.com/alobar1000
➤ Zostel Kathmandu
Zostel has standardised rooms and dorms all around the region. It’s a reliable place with basic facilities.
Email id: [email protected]
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/aTMpF8Sz5btnjPny9
Contact Number: +977- 9813495707
Website: https://www.zostel.com/zostel/kathmandu/
➤ Wander Thirst
This is another hostel in Kathmandu which has a mix of hostels with dorms and private rooms.
Email id: [email protected]
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/aTMpF8Sz5btnjPny9
Website: https://wanderthirsthostels.com/
How to reach Lower Ghandruk on your own
If you miss the Indiahikes pick up from Pokhara, here is how you can get to Lower Ghandruk base camp on your own.
Reaching Lower Ghandruk is pretty straightforward. Once you reach Pokhara take a bus or a Shared Cab from Prithavi chowk, it will take 4-5 hrs and cost Rs 500/- to reach Lower Ghandruk/Kimche. The distance is 55 km.
Important Points to Note
Buffer Day: The Khopra Ridge Trek is a very high altitude trek. Situations are dynamic and can change at any moment. Keep a buffer day for emergencies. This is outside the itinerary. You cannot predict bad rain, snowfall, landslides, or even mountain medical emergencies on such treks. Your trek is 9 days long, but keep an extra 10th day as your buffer day. If you don’t use the buffer day on the trek, you can always use it for sightseeing in Nepal.
Always book your return flight/train tickets after including the buffer day in your itinerary.
– The cost of the dorm room per bed is usually priced at around NPR 350-500. For a private room with a shared bathroom, it will cost around NPR 1000-1500.
– Kathmandu again has a wide range of hotels and places to stay. Book your stay close to Thamel which has better access to local food, trekking gears and a nice culture of trekking.
– From Kathmandu airport, if you take a cab to anywhere around a 2 km to 2.5 km radius, it will cost around NPR 600. Airport to Thamel will cost you NPR 700.
What to Pack on the Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Khopra Ridge Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Khopra Ridge Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Khopra Ridge Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Khopra Ridge Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Where is Khopra Ridge trek located? expand accordion
The Khopra Ridge is located in the Annapurna Conservation Area in Nepal. We combine the Khopra Ridge trek with a visit to Khayar lake, an alpine lake at an altitude of 15,750 ft above MSL.
The base camp of the trek in Pokhara. A drive of 3 hours will take you to Syauli Bazaar. It takes another four days of trekking from Syauli Bazaar to reach Khopra Ridge through Ghandruk, Tadapani and Dobato.
On the way to Khopra Ridge, you cross Muldhai's viewpoint from where you get a panoramic view of the region. The trek ends at Ulleri, from where you exit to Pokhara by road. It’s a 2-3 hour journey to Pokhara from Ulleri.
To know how to reach Pokhara, the base camp of the Khopra Ridge trek, click here for travel details and recommendations.
Can we trek solo to Khopra Ridge trek? expand accordion
Khopra Ridge is a teahouse trek. The trail to Khopra ridge is also very prominent, although one needs to be careful about diversions to other villages on the way. We also have a GPX file that you can use to attempt the trek on your own.
However, there are inherent risks associated with trekking to altitudes over 15,000 ft. Substantial experience in mounting Himalayan treks on your own and being successful is very important. You also need to be confident in taking care of any medical emergency on your own.
We would recommend joining one of our teams going to Khopra Ridge if you have the required fitness. You’ll have a good experience with a group of experienced and fit trekkers.
How long is the Khopra Ridge trek? expand accordion
The Khopra Ridge trek covers a distance of almost 70 km over 9 days of trekking. You cover an average of 8 km a day, which is a moderate distance. You usually reach your stay for the day by early evening.
However, what makes the trek challenging is the altitude gain and loss of over 10,000 ft. You start the trek at 6,600 ft and climb to the highest altitude of 15,709 ft. This requires the trekker to have good endurance.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Moderate-Difficult treks, you’ll walk for about 8-12 km each day. Gradual to steep ascents and descents are common on all days. Expect to reach high altitudes of 15,000+ ft. There will also be technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks), which our technical teams will help you navigate.
If you are above the age of 58 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advise you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
Is Offloading available on the Khopra Ridge trek? expand accordion
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek. However, if you have any medical issues and are not able to carry your own backpack, you can offload your backpack. The cost of offloading on the Khopra Ridge Trek is Rs 6,800 for the trek. Find details about the offloading process here.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.