Kuari Pass Trek 2026 | A Grand Pass-Climb for Beginners Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Callback
Kuari Pass Trek
The trek with the grandest mountain views of Uttarakhand
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch Talk to our Trek Advisors.
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Karchi: At our Karchi Campus, you are right beneath the gaze of Dronagiri Peak. Being this close to a Himalayan giant before your trek even begins is rare.
Garhwal’s Greatest Peaks at Khullara: Nanda Devi, Chaukhamba, Kamet, Dronagiri, Mana-Mandir — Garhwal’s most iconic peaks line up at Khullara Top . No other moderate trek in Uttarakhand offers this.
Contrasting Forest Sections: Walnut, maple and golden oak forests on the way up. Towering pines with Nanda Devi peering through the canopies on the way down to Auli.
The Ridge Walk to Chitrakantha: From Khullara Top, walk along a high ridge into Chitrakantha meadows with famous Himalayan peaks right in front of you. Pangarchulla rises behind you like a spire.
The Ledge Walk to Gorson Bugyal: Walk on a narrow ledge from Tali Lake in the constant presence of Mt. Nanda Devi. Witness the narrow trail open suddenly into the vast Gorson meadows.
The trek with the grandest mountain views of Uttarakhand
Kuari Pass is a trek that takes you to a grand amphitheater offering the grandest views of Garhwal Himalayas. It offers some of Uttarakhand's most breathtaking mountain views, including the rare sight of Mt. Nanda Devi. From the start of the trek, you are greeted with incredible views of towering peaks, beautiful oak forests, and vast meadows.
It is a great reward for those exploring the Himalayas for the first time. It’s a moderate trek with amazing rewards — forest walks, ridge climbs, and the exciting climb to Kuari Pass. It’s an experience you’ll carry with you forever.
Did you know we run Summer Camps on the Kuari Pass trek? If you have children aged 10-14, this is an ideal programme to help them gain confidence and resilience. Read more here.
play video
Starting from Karchi, the trail takes you through dense forests, open meadows, and finally to Kuari Pass. Be it the forests on the way to Akhrotghetta or the sunsets at Khullara campsite, there are no ordinary days on the Kuari Pass Trek. On your summit day, you stand at the grand viewpoint of Khullara Top. The iconic shapes of Mt. Nanda Devi, Chaukhamba, Kamet, Mana-Mandir Peaks, Dronagiri, the most iconic peaks of Garhwal, lay bare right in front of you. Next is a stunning ridge walk leading to the Chitrakantha meadows, before descending into the magical Tali campsite. Nestled in a forest of golden oaks and resting beside a gentle mountain stream, Tali is easily one of the most picturesque campsites.
Read more
expand overview
Starting from Karchi, the trail takes you through dense forests, open meadows, and finally to Kuari Pass. Be it the forests on the way to Akhrotghetta or the sunsets at Khullara campsite, there are no ordinary days on the Kuari Pass Trek. On your summit day, you stand at the grand viewpoint of Khullara Top. The iconic shapes of Mt. Nanda Devi, Chaukhamba, Kamet, Mana-Mandir Peaks, Dronagiri, the most iconic peaks of Garhwal, lay bare right in front of you. Next is a stunning ridge walk leading to the Chitrakantha meadows, before descending into the magical Tali campsite. Nestled in a forest of golden oaks and resting beside a gentle mountain stream, Tali is easily one of the most picturesque campsites.
Adding to all of this, Kuari Pass is a trek steeped in history. Famously known as the Lord Curzon Trail, this route has remained a timeless favourite among Himalayan treks for years.
Who can do this trek?
Kuari Pass is categorized as a moderate trek. It climbs to an altitude of 12,516 feet over a total distance of 22 km and is completed in six days. While the trek offers breathtaking views and thrilling experiences, there are a few tricky sections. Challenges include a steep 3,000 ft ascent on Day 1, narrow overhanging trails near Gorson Bugyal, and navigational difficulties in foggy weather. With proper preparation and fitness, even beginners can enjoy this rewarding trek safely.
What Makes the Kuari Pass Trek Special
Stunning views of Mt. Nanda Devi and other peaks
One of the biggest attractions of the Kuari Pass trek is its unmatched mountain views. From the very first day, you are greeted by towering giants like Mt. Nanda Devi, Dronagiri, Chaukhamba, Kamet, and the Hathi-Gauri peaks. These peaks dominate the skyline, offering a mesmerizing backdrop as you trek through forests and meadows. The sight of Mt. Nanda Devi, in particular from Gorson Bugyal, is breathtaking. It leaves you in awe, and the view remains etched in your memory long after the trek ends.
Enchanting oak and rhododendron forests
Kuari Pass is home to ancient oak and rhododendron forests, which add a magical element to the trek. These dense, green canopies offer a peaceful, almost otherworldly experience as you walk through them. In winter, these forests transform into a snowy wonderland, with snow-laden branches creating a picture-perfect scene. The gentle gradients make these forest walks enjoyable and relaxing, giving you time to soak in the beauty of nature.
Expansive meadows that change with seasons
Once you leave the forests, the trail opens to vast alpine meadows like Gorson Bugyal and Chitrakantha. These meadows are a refreshing contrast to the dense woods and a delight to walk on. In early autumn, the meadows are lush green, while late autumn brings golden hues. In winter, a blanket of snow covers the landscape, creating a stark, white beauty. Each season offers a unique charm, making the trek visually stunning at any time of the year.
The exciting climb to Khullara Top
The moment you reach Khullara Top is the pinnacle of the trek. Surrounded by a sweeping panorama of snow-clad peaks, the feeling is both humbling and exhilarating. The climb to the pass is challenging but rewarding, and standing there amidst such grandeur is an unforgettable experience. For many, it’s a deeply emotional moment, a culmination of effort and awe.
Picturesque campsites at Tali and Khullara
The campsites on this trek are remarkable. Whether it’s the quiet, forested setting of Tali or the open meadows of Khullara under the gaze of Mt. Dronagiri, each campsite offers something unique. Compared to most other treks, Kuari Pass has some of the most picture-perfect campsites.
Every element of the Kuari Pass trek, from open views of Garhwal's most iconic peaks to camping experiences and a fantastic ridge walk, comes together to make it an adventure to cherish. Whether you’re a first-time trekker or a seasoned hiker, Kuari Pass promises memories that will last a lifetime.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Kuari Pass : Take on the adventure of trekking to Kuari Pass, The trek with the grandest mountain views of Uttarakhand, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Karchi Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Karchi on Day 1 to dinner at Dhak on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
This costs Rs 1400 (an additional 5% GST) per trekker for the journey from Rishikesh to Dhak / Karchi. The return journey will cost Rs 1500 (an additional 5% GST) per trekker to Rishikesh. (This includes the extra charges from Auli to Dhak / Karchi). Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Kuari Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Kuari Pass trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find these extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Kuari Pass trek
Day 1
Drive from Rishikesh to Dhak / Karchi
Drive distance: 255 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Pick up Time: 5.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Karchi / Dhak
Transport will be arranged at 5.30 AM sharp . The costs are Rs 1400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) for the journey from Rishikesh to Dhak / Karchi. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Karchi to Akhrotghetta
Trek Distance: 2.75 km | Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude gain: 7,785 ft to 9,264 ft
Day 3
Trek from Akhrotghetta to Khullara
Trek Distance: 2.5 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 9,264 ft to 11,014 ft
Day 4
Trek from Khullara to Tali via Kuari Pass
Trek Distance: 7.65 km | Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 11,014 ft to 10,990 ft via 12,516 ft
Day 5
Trek from Tali to Auli. Drive to Karchi / Dhak
Trek Distance: 8.10 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude loss: 10,990 ft to 9,390 ft
Drive Distance: 21 km | Drive duration: 1 hr
Day 6
Depart from Dhak / Karchi and reach Rishikesh
Drive distance: 255 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Drop off point for Indiahikes Trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Drop off Time: 6 pm
You are expected to be back in Rishikesh by 6 p.m. Cost of the cab: Rs 1500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . (This includes the extra charges from Auli to Dhak). Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The trek itinerary and campsites can change in case of extreme weather such as rainfall and snowfall. The section of Gorson Bugyal becomes inaccessible which is why we need to re-route.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Rishikesh to Dhak / Karchi
Drive Duration: 9-10 hours drive | Drive Distance: 255 km
Altitude: 7,785 ft
Highlights: Watch out for the famous Panch Prayag of Uttarakhand during your drive - Devprayag , Rudraprayag , Karnaprayag , Nandaprayag , Vishnuprayag
The Kuari Pass trek begins at Dhak / Karchi. The drive from Rishikesh to Dhak / Karchi is a beautiful one. The route is along the tributaries of Ganga. The road goes along hugging the mountainside and you see the forests and valleys of Garhwal below you.
After you cross the village of Pipalkoti, the entire scenery changes. You suddenly see a stark difference in the landscape when approaching closer to the Greater Himalayan Range.
Watch out for the big mountain of Mt. Drongiri from the base camp. This peak will be your company for the entire trek duration.
Read More
The Kuari Pass trek begins at Dhak / Karchi. The drive from Rishikesh to Dhak / Karchi is a beautiful one. The route is along the tributaries of Ganga. The road goes along hugging the mountainside and you see the forests and valleys of Garhwal below you.
After you cross the village of Pipalkoti, the entire scenery changes. You suddenly see a stark difference in the landscape when approaching closer to the Greater Himalayan Range.
Watch out for the big mountain of Mt. Drongiri from the base camp. This peak will be your company for the entire trek duration.
Karchi has a few interesting things that you need to know. If you are reaching a day in advance or have time post your trek, these are the things to look out for - The Hotsprings, the first sight of Mt. Dronagiri peak welcoming you and the region of Lata, Reini where the Chipko movement started in India.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Dhak / Karchi to Akhrotghetta
Trek Duration: 3 hours | Trek Distance: 2.75 km
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Ascent staring with gradual for the first 20 minutes followed by 45 minutes steeper ascent through the forest. A mix of gradual and steep ascents in the forest.
Highlights: Lovely day's trek through the oak, maple forest with Mt Dronagiri (Dunagiri) standing tall throughout the day.
Start walking along the trail from your base. You can either pass through the village or above the village. The water bridge when you cross is where you can refill your water bottles which will help your long journey ahead.
It is from here that you start climbing the first steep section for 20 minutes, till you reach a clearing. This is your rest point. To your left, you get views of Karchu village, behind which you see a huge mountain rising, with glaciers all around it. This is Mt Dronagiri (Dunagiri). Savor this view and get to hear the mythological story about how Hanuman ji took a part of Mt. Dronagiri on his quest for the Sanjeevni booti.
About a kilometre from the start of the trek, you enter the forest mainly consisting of pine, oak, and maple trees. It starts with a good section of pine, fallen cones and maple seeds in the forest flooring.
Read More
Start walking along the trail from your base. You can either pass through the village or above the village. The water bridge when you cross is where you can refill your water bottles which will help your long journey ahead.
It is from here that you start climbing the first steep section for 20 minutes, till you reach a clearing. This is your rest point. To your left, you get views of Karchu village, behind which you see a huge mountain rising, with glaciers all around it. This is Mt Dronagiri (Dunagiri). Savor this view and get to hear the mythological story about how Hanuman ji took a part of Mt. Dronagiri on his quest for the Sanjeevni booti.
About a kilometre from the start of the trek, you enter the forest mainly consisting of pine, oak, and maple trees. It starts with a good section of pine, fallen cones and maple seeds in the forest flooring.
Continue inside the forest through a lot of switchbacks and gradually to steeper ascents.
As you approach a lone walnut tree, you’ll know that you have reached the campsite for the day. Akhrotghetta is located in a clearing, with the walnut tree to mark the campsite. You’ll see a range of mountains, the prominent ones being Hathi Gauri peaks and Mt Dronagiri.
Retire for the day here, taking in the view of the sunset. This is a nice campsite to explore around with a stream flowing close to it.
Do look out for the first rays of the sun hitting these peaks in the morning.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Akhrotgetta to Khullara
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance: 2.5 km
Difficulty: Easy. Moderate ascent all the way to Khullara
Highlights: Golden oaks along with Rhododendrons in the forest walk. The sight of big mountains approaching closer as you trek to Khullara. Watch out for the spectacular alpenglow from the campsite.
You are trekking amidst the Oaks for most of the day. The trail today ascends to Khullara but it’s not as steep as the previous day. Within 40 minutes of starting from Akhrotgetta, you reach the first clearing.
You will be surrounded by oak forests on all sides. Along with the green and brown oaks, now you start spotting the golden oaks. Continue on the trail leading into the forest.
Be careful near the streams in winters. They freeze and become extremely slippery to walk on them. So, exercise caution when you come across hard ice. The snow that freezes overnight and becomes hard ice is known as verglas.
Read More
You are trekking amidst the Oaks for most of the day. The trail today ascends to Khullara but it’s not as steep as the previous day. Within 40 minutes of starting from Akhrotgetta, you reach the first clearing.
You will be surrounded by oak forests on all sides. Along with the green and brown oaks, now you start spotting the golden oaks. Continue on the trail leading into the forest.
Be careful near the streams in winters. They freeze and become extremely slippery to walk on them. So, exercise caution when you come across hard ice. The snow that freezes overnight and becomes hard ice is known as verglas.
The peek-a-boo that the mountains play through the forests makes for very enchanting sights.
Reach the second clearing after about an hour. You get a feeling that the tree line is dwindling as you move ahead. But just turn back to see the number of snow-capped mountains increasing and getting a grander view as you take each step.
Notice the section covered with dwarf Rhododendrons. The next stretch is a lovely walk to your next campsite in Khullara.
Along with Mt. Dronagiri to the left, slightly at the back., you will get the mountain of Hathi Ghoda peaks. On a clear day, you get to see other peaks like Kamet, Neelkanth, and a few more coming out.
The Khullara campsite is located in a clearing.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Khullara to Tali via Kuari Pass
Duration: 8-9 hours | Trek Distance: 7.65 km
Difficulty: Moderate. Steep climb for 1-1.5 hours followed with gradual ascent about 40 minutes to Kuari Pass. Ridge walk of descent for about 1.5 hours followed by 1-hour ascent easing off into a moderate descent for about 2 hours.
Highlights: The grand views of the Greater Himalayans. Walk on the ridge and end your day with a serene walk through Tali forest.
The entire day's trail is marked with adventure. The trail from Khullara begins to climb steeply out of the tree line. In 1 to 1.5 hours you reach a ridge, which is a part of Lord Curzon’s trail. From here 360-degree views of the Himalayas open up before you.
On one side you see Chaukhamba, Neelkanth, Dronagiri, Nilgiri and Hathi Ghoda peaks. Straight ahead of you are Trishul and parts of Nanda Devi. Continue on this trail to reach the upper grasslands of Kuari Pass.
The moment you hit the ridge marked by the Shrine, you see the Pangarchulla Peak . This is one of the most adventurous and difficult climbs that you can do in the Spring season.
Read More
The entire day's trail is marked with adventure. The trail from Khullara begins to climb steeply out of the tree line. In 1 to 1.5 hours you reach a ridge, which is a part of Lord Curzon’s trail. From here 360-degree views of the Himalayas open up before you.
On one side you see Chaukhamba, Neelkanth, Dronagiri, Nilgiri and Hathi Ghoda peaks. Straight ahead of you are Trishul and parts of Nanda Devi. Continue on this trail to reach the upper grasslands of Kuari Pass.
The moment you hit the ridge marked by the Shrine, you see the Pangarchulla Peak . This is one of the most adventurous and difficult climbs that you can do in the Spring season.
From the ridge, trek up to the Kuari top. This is a moderate climb. It will take you 40 minutes to reach the top. The actual Kuari Pass is around half an hour more and is at a depression. So trekkers usually go to the Kuari Top.
It is all worth it as you get to savour the 270 deg panoramic view of the Greater Himalayas - close to 22 peaks.
From Kuari Top, retrace your way back to the ridge. Once you reach the ridge, walk along ahead instead of turning towards Khullara. An hour’s moderate climb will bring you to Jhandi top, which is on the top of the ridge. The ridge walk can get windy and cold at certain times. As you keep walking on the ridge, take a moment to turn back and see the route that you have taken and a clear view of Kuari Pass (with the U-shaped opening between the mountain slope)
Once you reach Jhandi Top, start descending towards the Chitrakantha meadows. This is a forest trail and the mountains get hidden behind the tall trees. You will reach Chitrakantha in 1-1.5 hours.
The trail from Chitrakantha to Tali dives deep into the forest. You are surrounded by golden oaks, pines and dwarf rhododendrons. The forest is dense and you will notice a kind of silence that engulfs you inside the forest. It is a unique setting compared to other forests of Uttarakhand. This section is one of our personal favorites, especially as the sunlight dances through the leaves. While you are tired, do not forget to catch the play of the sunlight on these trees. It will take your breath away.
The Tali forest camp is around 40 minutes ahead on this trail. The campsite is located right in the middle of the forest. You are surrounded by tall trees on all sides.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Tali to Auli and Drive to Dhak / Karchi
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours trek | Trek Distance: 8.1 km
Drive Distance: 21 km | Drive duration: 1 hr
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent for about 40 minutes followed by a 20 minutes steep climb. Around 45 minutes of gradual ascent which eases off into a descending trail for about 3 hours.
Highlights: The view of Mt. Nanda Devi. The trek with Tali lake towards the ledge and trekking through Gorson Bugyal. The descent takes you via the lovely forests of Padiyar.
Begin the trek today with a small climb to Tali lake. This should take you around 30-40 minutes. At Tali lake, you’re above the tree line so you start getting the mountain views again. This day is the icing on the cake with the gorgeous view of Mt. Nandi Devi that makes you go weak on your knees.
A 20 minutes steep climb from Tali lake brings you to an overhanging trail which cuts through a cliff. Continue on this ledge. You can spot Lower and Upper Tugasi villages way below in the valley and also see rhododendron forests from above. The entire valley is below you now.
This is also the place you need to look up and catch Himalayan Griffin hovering above you. This majestic beauty is a wondrous bird. After about 40 minutes of moderate ascent, the overhanging trail ends abruptly and you take a U-turn towards Gorson Bugyal.
Read More
Begin the trek today with a small climb to Tali lake. This should take you around 30-40 minutes. At Tali lake, you’re above the tree line so you start getting the mountain views again. This day is the icing on the cake with the gorgeous view of Mt. Nandi Devi that makes you go weak on your knees.
A 20 minutes steep climb from Tali lake brings you to an overhanging trail which cuts through a cliff. Continue on this ledge. You can spot Lower and Upper Tugasi villages way below in the valley and also see rhododendron forests from above. The entire valley is below you now.
This is also the place you need to look up and catch Himalayan Griffin hovering above you. This majestic beauty is a wondrous bird. After about 40 minutes of moderate ascent, the overhanging trail ends abruptly and you take a U-turn towards Gorson Bugyal.
At Gorson Bugyal, wide mountain views open up to the right and behind you. You will trek across the entire length of Gorson Bugyal, which gives you enough time to savour the views. This is a lovely, descending walk.
However, take this in before the reality of civilization hits you again. During the holiday season and popular times, this region is where the entire trail is populated. You will start seeing plenty of waste and is a good opportunity for you to contribute to leaving the mountains better.
In 2-2.5 hours you will reach Padiyar. From here, the trail enters an oak forest. Within 15 minutes you reach Padiyar temple. You can take a break here if you wish. From Padiyar temple, the trail continues to descend.
Upper Auli, which is the end of the ski lift (number 10), appears in 10-15 minutes. Auli is 1,000 ft below this. You will reach it after gradually descending through the meadows for 1-1.5 hours.
Once you reach Auli, you will drive down and stay at our campus at Dhak / Karchi.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Drive from Dhak / Karchi to Rishikesh
Drive Duration: 9-10 hours drive | Drive Distance: 255 km
Highlights: The famous Panch Prayags
Start early in the morning, preferably before 6:00 AM since the journey takes at least 9-10 hours. If you have time to spare at Rishikesh, explore around Rishikesh
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Start early in the morning, preferably before 6:00 AM since the journey takes at least 9-10 hours. If you have time to spare at Rishikesh, explore around Rishikesh
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult is the Kuari Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 22 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 4,731 ft (7,785 ft to 12,516 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. There are several difficult sections on this trek that require you to be alert and trek carefully.
The Terrain:
You have a steep ascent on the first day of the trek. You climb about 1500 ft over a stretch of just 2.75 km.
While approaching Gorson Bugyal from Tali, you trek on an overhanging narrow trail for about 1 km overlooking the Dhak valley. Especially around winter or rainy days, this stretch can get tricky.
The trail going into the pine forests of Auli from Gorson Bugyal is not well marked. If you miss the exact entry point to the forest, it is easy to go astray. On a misty or foggy day with low visibility, this can be tricky.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. The Tali campsite is extremely prone to flooding and rain can also make the forest trails too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
In the Autumn and winter seasons, the temperatures may plummet below zero. Even without snowfall, strong winds can take a toll on you if you're not well-layered.
The Khullara campsite is one of the coldest campsites among all the treks that we run at Indiahikes. Appropriate layering is extremely important here.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The ascent of about 1500 ft over a stretch of just 2.75 km. It is steep, and this exertion on the very first day of your trek, can make you more prone to Acute Mountain Sickness.
On the Kuari Pass trek, you reach an altitude of 12,500 ft and at altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
If you are in the valley where Khullara and Tali campsites are located, the closest exit is via Dhak.
If you have crossed the overhanging section of the trail and arrived on the Gorson Bugyal side, the closest exit is Auli.
Closest Hospital to the Kuari Pass Trek:
The closest Primary Healthcare Center is in Joshimath, just 20 kms by road from Karchi. However, for any serious concern, heading to Dehradun is the best option. Dehradun is a 7-8 hr drive from both Karchi and Auli.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Kuari Pass Trek
Time your Trek well
toggle accordion
Kuari Pass trek is accessible for 10 months of the year except for July and August (the peak rainy season in Uttarakhand).
If we take out the monsoons, we get 4 distinct seasons to experience Kuari Pass – Winter, Spring, Summer, and Autumn . Each season is different and lovely in its way.
Kuari Pass in Winter (mid-November to February)
Day time: Between 8 °C and 14 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between -8 °C and -14 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow from the base camp towards January. The entire landscape and valley will be in white from December to the end of March.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
In winter , people trek to Kuari Pass to experience snow and the mighty views from the trek. The landscape again changes colour when draped in the white snow. Kuari pass is a mountain lovers’ delight during the winter season.
The winter setting is a dreamy wonderland with pines, oak trees and dwarf rhododendrons. Along with this, you have an unending vista of the biggest mountains in India opening up right from day one. Soft, powdery snowflakes loosely hang from pine trees. Perfect for snowball fights and an experience of snowfall if you’re lucky. However, snow raises the difficulty of the trek by a notch. So, prepare well if you are going in winter.
The winters of Kuari are known to be notoriously cold. It is much colder than other treks that we run during the winter season.
Kuari Pass in Spring (March to April)
Day time temperature: Between 13 °C and 17 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero
Great time to experience the last of the winter snow. The snow starts to recede from the lower campsites when spring sets. The upper reaches of Gorson and Kuari are still under snow.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
Spring in Kuari starts by mid-March and goes on till the end of April. The snows start to melt in the upper reaches while the grass begins to turn green in the lower meadows. Tiny flowers make their heads out of the grass while rhododendrons bloom on the trees.
The upper reaches of the Khullara and Chitrakantha meadows are usually under snow until mid-April.
Spring is a great time to experience colour contrasts on the meadows. You see snow, greenery and the colour of flowers altogether.
Kuari Pass in Summer (May to June)
Day time temperature: Between 18 °C and 24 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop around 3-8 °C
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
During summer, you will experience bright sunny days and mildly colder nights. So, if you are looking to trek around comfortable temperatures, this is the right time.
By the end of summer, do expect mild rains to start. The rains usually start in the afternoons and go till the evening. This will mark the beginning of the monsoon season.
Kuari Pass in Autumn (September to mid-November)
Day time temperature: Between 10 °C and 15 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
This is an ideal time to trek if you are looking for crisp views of the mountain. This season also rings in the colour. The meadows are golden brown.
In this season, you must also keep in mind that we are moving towards winter. The days get shorter and the nights start to get much colder.
Ending the trek towards Auli and crossing towards Gorson Bugyal is very much dependent on how much snow and how the weather forecast is for the week. In case of bad weather or the ridge not being safe to cross, the trek leader can take a call on returning the campsite of Khullara.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Kuari Pass Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Karchi is the base camp of the Kuari Pass Trek. Karchi is a small hamlet in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand. One among four small villages in this area. It is around 9-10 hours by road from Rishikesh .
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5.30 am from Live Free Hostel .
Arrive in Rishikesh by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Rishikesh by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rishikesh:
How to reach Rishikesh? Rishikesh does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rishikesh is to:
Fly to Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun , which is about 1-hour away from Rishikesh
Fly to Delhi and take a train to Haridwar (30 km from Rishikesh )
Fly to Delhi and take an overnight bus to Rishikesh.
How to reach Rishikesh by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Rishikesh.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Rishikesh by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Haridwar. From Haridwar, it is just 30 km to Rishikesh.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Rishikesh by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Rishikesh on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Karchi the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Rishikesh:
You can retrace the same journey back from Rishikesh to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Karchi on your own:
There are direct buses from Dehradun or Rishikesh to Joshimath. From Joshimath, you can find shared jeeps that go to Karchi from the Tapovan Taxi Stand.
Option 1: Direct Bus from Dehradun to Joshimath and Shared Jeep to Karchi
There is one direct bus from Dehradun which leaves at 5:30 AM.
You can book seats on this bus online through the UTC Pathik App
Arrives at Joshimath at 5:30 PM on the same day.
From Joshimath to Karchi is a 17 km journey. Shared vehicles charge around Rs. 100 per person while booking a cab will cost somewhere around Rs. 700
Option 2: Direct Bus from Rishikesh to Joshimath and Shared Jeep to Karchi
There is one direct bus from Rishikesh which leaves at 5 AM.
Arrives at Joshimath at around 4 PM on the same day.
However, the availability and timing of the bus can sometimes be dependent on prior schedules, so it’s recommended to confirm the bus's arrival the previous day.
From Joshimath to Karchi is a 17 km journey. Shared vehicles charge around Rs. 100 per person while booking a cab will cost somewhere around Rs. 700
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Kuari Pass Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things to take
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Kuari Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Kuari Pass Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Kuari Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Can I bring luggage I do not require on the trek and leave them somewhere before the trek? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage. (The luggage could be a backpack / suitcase / duffel bag or anything similar.).
Please ensure that you do not leave valuable belongings in our cloakroom facility. If you do, inform our staff so that they can take the necessary precautions to keep them safe.
Will there be any network on the trek? expand accordion
You will not get a good network signal until Joshimath. On the trail, you might have intermittent signals on the first and last day of the trek. At the base camp, you will get Jio and BSNL network coverage if the weather conditions are good.
Note: Beware that the power from your batteries will drain faster in the cold temperatures of this region. So, put the batteries in a small pouch and keep them inside your sleeping bag to keep them warm during the night.
Is there an ATM at the base village? expand accordion
There is no ATM at the base camp of Karchi. Carry enough cash when you leave Rishikesh or from your base city.
What are washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
Our campus at Karchi will have concrete toilets. On the other days, bio-toilets will be set up along each campsite. A bio-toilet has a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These bio-toilets are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. There will be a room freshener as well. It’s the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild. Please use plain toilet paper and do not use wet wipes since these are not bio-degradable.
How long is the Kuari Pass trek? expand accordion
The total distance covered during the Kuari Pass trek is 21.5 km.
One of the best things about the Kuari pass trek is the flexibility it has in terms of itinerary and trails. If you approach the trek from Dhak as your starting point, you can reach Khullara campsite by two different trails, with Guling and Akhrotghetta as the distinct campsites.
At the pass, you can choose to descend back down to Karchi or take another beautiful trail to Auli. If you do the latter, then you again have an option to camp at exquisite locations like Chitrakantha or Tali on the way down!
What is the height of Kuari Pass? expand accordion
Kuari Pass trek reaches a maximum altitude/height of 12,516 ft.
From Karchi, the trek climbs a height/altitude of more or less 5,600 ft during the length of this trek. You steadily climb up the first three days of the trek to the summit. After Tali the trail climbs up to Gorson Bugyal and then climbs down to Auli.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I go for this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on Kuari Pass trek is Rs 1,600 pre-tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Where is the Kuari Pass situated? expand accordion
Kuari Pass is located in the heart of Chamoli, a district renowned for its pilgrimage sites, especially Badrinath. Joshimath, the town in the centre of the news, is the hub for the Kuari Pass trek.
We start the trek from a small village called Karchi, which lies 16 km from Joshimath. We end the trek on the famous ski slopes of Auli after trekking our way through the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve.
What is Kuari Pass altitude? expand accordion
Kuari Pass trek reaches a maximum altitude/height of 12,516 ft.
From Karchi, the trek climbs a height/altitude of more or less 5,600 ft during the length of this trek. You steadily climb up the first three days of the trek to the summit. After Tali the trail climbs up to Gorson Bugyal and then climbs down to Auli.
How long is the Kuari Pass trek? expand accordion
The Kuari Pass Trek covers 21 kms in 4 days.
Check out Quick Itinerary for more information.
Is Kuari Pass a winter trek? expand accordion
Kuari Pass trek is accessible for 10 months of the year except July and August (the peak monsoon season in Uttarakhand). If we take out the monsoons, we get 4 distinct seasons to experience the Kuari Pass – Winter, Spring, Summer and Autumn . Each season is different and magical in its own way.
In winter , people trek to Kuari Pass to experience snow and the mighty views from the trek. The landscape again changes colour when draped in the white snow. Kuari pass is a mountain lovers’ delight during the winter season.
The winter setting is a dreamy wonderland with pines, oak trees and dwarf rhododendrons. Along with this, you have an unending vista of the biggest mountains in India opening up right from day one. Soft, powdery snowflakes loosely hang from pine trees. Perfect for snowball fights and an experience of snowfall if you’re lucky. However, snow raises the difficulty of the trek by a notch. So, prepare well if you are going in winter.
The winters of Kuari are known to be notoriously cold. It is much colder than other treks that we run during the winter season.
How to reach Kuari Pass from Delhi? expand accordion
From Delhi, book a night bus to Rishikesh. For those who have registered with Indiahikes, the pick-up will be from Live Free Hostel on Laxman Jhula Road in Rishikesh. It is then, a 9 - 10 hour drive to Karchi, which is the base camp for the Kuari Pass Trek.
Refer to how to reach the Karchi Basecamp section for more information.
How to do Kuari Pass - Pangarchulla Trek? expand accordion
Kuari Pass and Pangarchulla treks are two different treks, with different levels of difficulty. While Kuari Pass is classified as moderate, Pangarchulla peak trek is a difficult 1 trek . Hence, it is not advised to combine the two.
Check out the trek itinerary for Kuari Pass trek and Pangarchulla Peak trek here.
Can I fly my drone on the Kuari Pass Trek? expand accordion
No, you cannot fly your drone on the Kuari Pass trek anymore. The Forest department has banned flying drones in this region.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.