Miyar Valley 2026 | Himachal’s Yosemite of India Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
MIYAR VALLEY TREK
A Trek that takes you to the Heart of Lahaul
We've announced 2026 dates for the Miyar Valley Trek.
Scroll down to view dates. If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click Here to Request A Callback
Highlights
The High Altitude River Delta Landscape: Beyond Khanjer, witness the valley open into sweeping green meadows. Trek in a high-altitude outwash plain, crisscrossed by countless glacial streams.
Crossing Icy Glacial Streams: The trek constantly weaves across icy glacial streams and tributaries of the Miyar River. Some crossings are easy, others challenging, but all add to the adventure of your trek.
The Mixed Culture of Lahaul: Near Yolling, you’ll see Buddhist stupas and Hindu temples stand side by side. Trekking through this valley will show you this centuries-old mix of Himalayan traditions in a way nothing else can.
Flowers in the Valley: The cold deserts of Lahaul are known for wide open landscapes, grasslands and bare rocks. If you are in season, beds of wildflowers in Miyar Valley will take you by surprise.
A Climbing Paradise: Long before it became a trekking destination, Miyar Valley was renowned among climbers for peaks like the Fortress Group, Tharang Massif, and Menthosa.
A Trek that takes you to the Heart of Lahaul
Lahaul is a region that our country has hardly seen. For years, it remained hidden beyond the Rohtang Pass, closed off for most of the year. But after the opening of the Atal Tunnel in 2020, Lahaul opened up to trekkers. And brought with it access to Miyar Valley, a trek that takes you deep into the heart of Lahaul.
This S-shaped valley, carved by the Miyar River and its glacial tributaries, is a trekker's dream. For days at a stretch, you walk through vast open grasslands. Come monsoon, they're dotted with wildflowers. Glacial streams crisscross the meadows. The rugged mountains of Lahaul — the Fortress Peaks, the Tharang Massif, the formidable Menthosa — rise like a cinematic backdrop, their slopes streaked with striking colours and textures.
play video
The best part of Miyar Valley is how easy it is on your legs. Compare Miyar to our other treks in Lahaul-Spiti — Pin Bhaba Pass, Kanamo Peak, or the Chandrabhaga Glaciers — and Miyar is far more accessible. After an initial rocky climb out of Khanjer, you reach the grasslands. From there, it's almost a level walk through an extraordinary landscape. Yes, it's over 70 km, and there are river crossings and rocky patches that add a sense of adventure but the rewards far outweigh the effort.
Read more
expand overview
The best part of Miyar Valley is how easy it is on your legs. Compare Miyar to our other treks in Lahaul-Spiti — Pin Bhaba Pass, Kanamo Peak, or the Chandrabhaga Glaciers — and Miyar is far more accessible. After an initial rocky climb out of Khanjer, you reach the grasslands. From there, it's almost a level walk through an extraordinary landscape. Yes, it's over 70 km, and there are river crossings and rocky patches that add a sense of adventure but the rewards far outweigh the effort.
What many of us forget is that Miyar Valley was also the ancient connection between Lahaul and Ladakh through the Kang La Pass. When you see the moraines of Miyar Glacier and the small pools left behind by its retreat, it's incredible to imagine how this valley has shaped life and culture here over millennia. From your homestay in Khanjer to the Buddhist shrines you pass along the trail, it's an incredible introduction to the region's unique culture.
That is why Miyar Valley is unlike any other trek. It's a side of our country that trekkers are yet to fully explore. Stunning grasslands, iconic peaks, a culture most trekkers haven't touched and all of it in 7 days of moderate trekking. Whether you're a beginner just discovering trekking or an experienced trekker looking for a new region to explore, Miyar Valley is the trek for you.
5 Things We Love About the Miyar Valley Trek
1) A Climbing Paradise
Long before Miyar Valley gained recognition as a trekking destination, it was celebrated as a climber’s paradise. Mountaineers from across the globe have journeyed here to scale the Fortress Peaks, the Tharang Massif, and the formidable Menthosa. As you trek through the valley, you witness these towering giants in their full glory — from base to summit — their rugged slopes streaked with striking colours and textures. Near your Palpu campsite, you’ll even come across memorials of climbers who lost their lives attempting these peaks. At Miyar Valley, you are trekking through the heart of mountaineering history.
2) The High Altitude River Delta Landscape
After a stony climb up a steep slope ahead of Khanjer, you are greeted by the sight of a full-fledged Cricket Ground. Immediately after that, the entire view of Miyar Valley opens up in front of you. Just before reaching your first campsite at Yolling, you start seeing the iconic green meadows and river delta systems that define this trek. You see numerous small streams crisscrossing the region and merging to form the gushing Miyar River. Observe the striking features formed by silting or exchanging stories with shepherds grazing their herds in the meadows.
3) The Boulders Around Zardong Campsite
The Zardong Campsite is known for its mountain views. Here, you feel surrounded by the icy giants of the valley with their giant glaciers and clouds playing around their top. But what we hardly talk about are the myriad boulders that surround your camp. Not only do they shelter the camp from harsh winds, but clambering up these boulders is a fun adventure in itself. Some are easy, others a bit more challenging and simply sitting atop one in stillness is a very immersive experience — a moment to connect with yourself that you’ll remember for a long time.
4) River Crossings on the Trek
On the Miyar Valley Trek, you are constantly accompanied by the Miyar stream and its smaller tributaries. You cross one of them just before reaching Palpu. Two more streams wait for you on the way to Summit from Palpu. Some of them are tricky due to the current. Others flow straight from glaciers and are icy cold. Wading through them is a challenge but also a memory to cherish forever.
5) The Mixed Culture of Lahaul
Just before you reach Yolling, you'll cross a Stupa which are known to be Buddhist structures. But very close to it, you'll also see a Hindu Temple dedicated to Lord Shiva. This is a hallmark of the unique mixed culture of Lahaul. If you speak to locals, you'll also notice that many have two names, one from a Tibetan Buddhist origin and other Hindu roots. Since Lahaul has long been a region where cultures have intermixed due to cross border trade, this is something very unique to the region. It's hard to experience this as a tourist. But as this trek takes you to the heart of Lahaul, you get these rare insider glimpses of the culture and history of the region.
When it comes to landscapes, terrain, or culture, the Miyar Valley Trek gives you a glimpse of Lahaul that most tourists never get to see. It’s still off the radar for many, which makes it a rare chance to explore one of the most remote and stunningly beautiful regions in our country.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Miyar Valley : Take on the thrilling journey to Miyar Valley, taking you to the heart of Lahaul, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Khanjer : Experience the rich culture of Lahaul by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Khanjer on Day 1 to breakfast at Khanjer on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1750 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3500 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs. 2400 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Miyar Valley - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Miyar Valley trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Miyar Valley trek
Day 1
Drive from Manali to Khanjer
Drive Distance: 140 km | Drive Duration: 5-6 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Beas Bridge, Manali
Leave from Beas Bridge, Manali, at 6:00 am. Drop off your cloakroom bag, collect your rentals, and offload if you have opted for it, at Khanjer base camp. You will meet your trek leader here. On the way, you will have your breakfast.
Indiahikes will arrange transport from Manali to Khanjer. The cost for this pick-up is ₹1750 (additional 5% GST). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Khanjer to Yolling
Trek Distance: 9.2 km | Altitude Gain: 11,564 ft to 12,345 ft
Easy-Moderate. Gradual climb through a series of switchbacks till Tharang.
Day 3
Trek from Yolling to Zardong
Trek Distance: 12 km | Altitude Gain: 12,345 ft to 12,667 ft
Goes through the village route with farmlands on the right. You cross a river bridge and also come across a wide open field.
Day 4
Trek from Zardong to Palpu via Kesar Yon Choo | optional trek to Miyar Origin
Trek Distance: 12.5 km | Altitude Gain: 12,667 ft to 12,782 via 13,202 ft
Start with a descent, followed by a steep section towards Stupa. After that the trail is gradual. Landscape frequently changes colour.
Day 5
Trek from Palpu to Gompa
Trek Distance: 12.5 km | Altitude Gain: 12,782 ft to 12,828 ft
Day 6
Trek from Gompa to Tharang
Trek Distance: 7.5 km | Altitude Loss: 12,828 ft to 12,270 ft
Day 7
Trek from Tharang to Khanjer. Drive to Manali
Trek Distance: 7.5 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude Loss: 12,270 ft to 6,730 ft via 11,564 ft
Drive Distance: 140 km | Drive Duration: 5-6 hours | Drop off point for Indiahikes trekkers: Beas Bridge, Manali
Indiahikes will arrange transport from Khanjer to Manali. The cost for this drop-off is ₹1750 (additional 5% GST). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
You will be reaching Manali by 7 to 8.00 pm
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
IMPORTANT UPDATE (Since July 2024): The tourism department of Himachal Pradesh has stopped permitting children below 14 to do the Miyar Valley trek. This is an edition of regulations after the Sahastra Tal incident .
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1: Drive from Manali to Khanjer
Duration: 5 to 6 hours | Drive Distance: 140 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 4,834 ft (6,730 ft to 11,564 ft)
Highlights: Watch out for the waterfall at Sissu. The confluence of Chandra and Bhaga rivers at Tunde.
The drive from Manali to Khanjer goes through Atal Tunnel. Notice the drastic change in terrain, landscapes, and climate. Lahaul is a place of mystic beauty.
Watch out from the window and spot famous pilgrimages and sights such as Triloknath mandir (at Tunde), and Tandi (where the confluence of the rivers Chandra and Bhaga happens).
One can see the stark contrast between the Lahaul and Kullu regions of Himachal. Going through the Atal tunnel is like entering a wormhole where you enter two different worlds through this portal. The drive goes alongside the Chenab river going through loose sedimentary rocky sections and steep folded mountains, All around you are snow-capped mountains. The vegetation for the most part is coniferous trees and some shrubs.
Read More
The drive from Manali to Khanjer goes through Atal Tunnel. Notice the drastic change in terrain, landscapes, and climate. Lahaul is a place of mystic beauty.
Watch out from the window and spot famous pilgrimages and sights such as Triloknath mandir (at Tunde), and Tandi (where the confluence of the rivers Chandra and Bhaga happens).
One can see the stark contrast between the Lahaul and Kullu regions of Himachal. Going through the Atal tunnel is like entering a wormhole where you enter two different worlds through this portal. The drive goes alongside the Chenab river going through loose sedimentary rocky sections and steep folded mountains, All around you are snow-capped mountains. The vegetation for the most part is coniferous trees and some shrubs.
Notice the fields in this region. The locals of Lahaul grow food crops, majorly iceberg lettuce.
The most beautiful part of the road trip would be to witness waterfalls on your left at Sissu. Tandi is where the road diverts to two places - one on Leh Manali highway and the other toward Udaipur. Tandi is also the place where two rivers confluence namely Chandra and Bhaga.
Udaipur before the year 1695 was known as Margul. It is the sub-divisional headquarters of Lahaul and gets its name from Raja Udai Singh of Chamba. Udaipur is famously known for Triloknath and Margul Devi Temple.
The road ends at Khanjar. You cross a suspension bridge that hangs over Miyar Nala to enter Kanjer village. This is the last village on the route. It is 31 km from Shukto. There are 13 villages inside this valley.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Khanjer to Yolling
Trek Distance: 9.2 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 781 ft (11,564 ft to 12,345 ft)
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Gradual climb through a series of switchbacks till Yolling.
Highlights: The farmlands grow a variety of crops. Pretty villages and a cricket ground.
This region has three distinct types of soils: Alluvial, Hill-type and Meadow type. The region supports cultivation only from June to September. The villagers mainly grow iceberg lettuce, seed potatoes, apples, sea buckthorns, cauliflowers, barley, asafoetida, and medicinal plants such as Kuth (Saucerrea Lappa), mannu (Innu Racemosa).
From here the trail starts in a series of switchbacks while farms accompany you to the first campsite, Yolling. The place has a beautiful water stream nearby. Also, the flat meadow is used by locals to play cricket on occasions.
You also find many steep rockfaces around this region which have attracted the attention of rock-climbers.
Read More
This region has three distinct types of soils: Alluvial, Hill-type and Meadow type. The region supports cultivation only from June to September. The villagers mainly grow iceberg lettuce, seed potatoes, apples, sea buckthorns, cauliflowers, barley, asafoetida, and medicinal plants such as Kuth (Saucerrea Lappa), mannu (Innu Racemosa).
From here the trail starts in a series of switchbacks while farms accompany you to the first campsite, Yolling. The place has a beautiful water stream nearby. Also, the flat meadow is used by locals to play cricket on occasions.
You also find many steep rockfaces around this region which have attracted the attention of rock-climbers.
One of the best part of the day is that, you pass by Tharang. You get to view Lahaul’s second-highest and most beautiful peak, Menthosa. It is known as the crown of Miyar Valley.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Yolling to Zardong
Trek Distance: 12 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 322 ft (12,345 ft to 12,667 ft)
Highlights: The rocky mountain massif of Tharang. The pretty campsite of Zardong.
In the course of the whole trek, this is a slightly more challenging day. The trek initially is a flat walk and then there is a 10-15 minute descent to the bridge. From the bridge, there is a 20-minute steep climb towards Gompa and to the right is Gompa Nala. A little ahead you will find a shepherd's hut and around is a small water body which is also known as Gompa lake.
From the shepherd’s hut, for 30 minutes the route gradually descends towards a flat meadow patch. From here a stretch of boulder section comes which again takes you up and down, the section gets slightly tricky because you will be walking over the edges at certain points. Also, the ups and downs across boulder sections can get slightly tiring. But the steep pyramidical mountains surround you all around.
Eventually, the route descends to a flat region alongside the river. Here, the best part is to feel the beach-type walks and the constant gushing water.
Read More
In the course of the whole trek, this is a slightly more challenging day. The trek initially is a flat walk and then there is a 10-15 minute descent to the bridge. From the bridge, there is a 20-minute steep climb towards Gompa and to the right is Gompa Nala. A little ahead you will find a shepherd's hut and around is a small water body which is also known as Gompa lake.
From the shepherd’s hut, for 30 minutes the route gradually descends towards a flat meadow patch. From here a stretch of boulder section comes which again takes you up and down, the section gets slightly tricky because you will be walking over the edges at certain points. Also, the ups and downs across boulder sections can get slightly tiring. But the steep pyramidical mountains surround you all around.
Eventually, the route descends to a flat region alongside the river. Here, the best part is to feel the beach-type walks and the constant gushing water.
As you move more inwards the valley, the valley after every Nala gets wider and grander. Everywhere you look around there are valley openings. The trail is covered with multiple types of flowers.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Zardong to Palpu via Kesar Yon Choo | optional trek to Miyar Origin
Trek Distance: 12.5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 535 ft (12,667 ft to 12,782 via 13,202 ft)
The route walks alongside the river. The major portion involves flat walks. You'll come across the region by the name Chhudong.
Chhudong is a huge meadow patch which is located right next to the river. The river here is very soothing and wider than anywhere else along the trek. The murky water on your right goes all the way to the snout. Since the valley has an active river running in between, by just walking alongside the river the trail is well marked and easily noticeable. It's hard for anyone to get confused about the route.
Palpu is located near Castle Peak which again is a very beautiful campsite which offers a good view of the valley and Tharang peaks. From here if the weather is clear the chances of viewing Menthosa are also high.
Read More
The route walks alongside the river. The major portion involves flat walks. You'll come across the region by the name Chhudong.
Chhudong is a huge meadow patch which is located right next to the river. The river here is very soothing and wider than anywhere else along the trek. The murky water on your right goes all the way to the snout. Since the valley has an active river running in between, by just walking alongside the river the trail is well marked and easily noticeable. It's hard for anyone to get confused about the route.
Palpu is located near Castle Peak which again is a very beautiful campsite which offers a good view of the valley and Tharang peaks. From here if the weather is clear the chances of viewing Menthosa are also high.
If you decide to got to the Glacier, you will go to the snout of the glacier which comes after going through a boulder section and a stream. Eventually, you reach a place which is the last small meadow patch located near seven icy ponds, this place is known as Kesar Yon Chu. From here on the actual glacier starts. The snout of the glacier is just 30 minutes from the ponds.
Once you have reached the snout, Spend a good amount of time. Then return from here on the same route. There are two more river crossings on the way back.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Palpu to Gompa
Trek Distance: 12.5 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 46 ft (12,782 ft to 12,828 ft)
Palpu is located near Castle peak which again is a very beautiful campsite which offers a good view of the valley and Tharang peaks. From here if the weather is clear the chances of viewing Menthosa is also high.
Read More
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Palpu is located near Castle peak which again is a very beautiful campsite which offers a good view of the valley and Tharang peaks. From here if the weather is clear the chances of viewing Menthosa is also high.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Gompa to Tharang
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 7.5 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 512 ft (12,828 ft to 12,270 ft)
Highlights:
The route walks alongside the river, Major portion involves flat walks. We come across the region by the name Chhudong. Chhudong is a huge meadow patch which is located right next to the river. The river here is very soothing and wider than anywhere else along the trek. The murky water on your right goes all the way to the snout. Since the valley has an active river running in between the valley, by just walking along-side the river it is well marked and easily noticeable, it's hard for anyone to get confused about the route.
After the flat meadows of Chhudong, the valley squeezes with boulder patches. Then comes the cold stream from a valley right to you. Here the Stream comes from the same valley which also has Never Seen Tower and Castle Peak. Again the trail gets flatter and you walk next to the river. After a while again the boulder patches with few water streams need to be negotiated.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
The route walks alongside the river, Major portion involves flat walks. We come across the region by the name Chhudong. Chhudong is a huge meadow patch which is located right next to the river. The river here is very soothing and wider than anywhere else along the trek. The murky water on your right goes all the way to the snout. Since the valley has an active river running in between the valley, by just walking along-side the river it is well marked and easily noticeable, it's hard for anyone to get confused about the route.
After the flat meadows of Chhudong, the valley squeezes with boulder patches. Then comes the cold stream from a valley right to you. Here the Stream comes from the same valley which also has Never Seen Tower and Castle Peak. Again the trail gets flatter and you walk next to the river. After a while again the boulder patches with few water streams need to be negotiated.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 7: Trek from Tharang to Khanjer. Drive to Manali
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Duration: 7.5 km
Drive Duration: 5-6 hour | Drive Distance: 140 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 5,540 ft (12,270 ft to 6,730 ft via 11,564 ft)
Difficulty: Easy, almost flat walk till Thareng.
Highlights: The flat walks in the valley.
Walking toward the Thanpattan region is beautiful and looks like Clint Eastwood's movie scenes. For kilometres, it's flat walks. It's quite dramatic to walk back.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
Walking toward the Thanpattan region is beautiful and looks like Clint Eastwood's movie scenes. For kilometres, it's flat walks. It's quite dramatic to walk back.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Miyar Valley Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 60.2 km in six trekking days. Although you gain only 1,638 ft (11,564 ft to 13,202 ft), every day will include ascents and descents on uneven trails. The days are long and you will be trekking for 7-8 hours daily.
Terrain:
Long days are the biggest challenge on the trek. Almost every day, you’ll cover 9 to 10 kilometers. This requires you to trek 7-8 hours daily. This is no mean feat at 12,000 ft above sea-level.
Right after you step out of Khanjer, a steep uphill climb awaits you. It leads to a high-altitude cricket ground, your gateway into the Miyar Valley. This initial ascent can be quite tiring. Please pace yourself properly in this section
There are several river crossings on this trek. Palpu, where you camp on the fourth day of your trek, is situated in a river delta area. You need to cross a stream to get to this campsite and the current can catch you off-guard.
Even ahead of Palpu, you have two more stream crossings to navigate before reaching Kesar Yon Choo. These are glacial streams and the water is freezing cold. Going barefoot into these streams demands physical and mental preparedness.
There are boulder sections on this trek as well. You need to hop, skip, and balance across them. This can get tricky if you don’t have strong legs.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Early in the season, in June, there is a lot of snow on the trail. It can get tricky.
In July and August, rain is a common occurrence. This makes the boulder sections slippery.
Heavy rains also significantly increase the force of water at river crossings. This makes river crossings even more challenging.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The Miyar Valley trek starts rather high at 11,564 ft. During the trek, you climb to 13,202 feet. This high start makes you susceptible to altitude sickness in the first couple of days.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
Miyar Valley trek has limited exit points. In case of any injury, you need to retrace your way back to Khanjer and then travel to Udaipur, 31 km away.
Closest Hospital to the Miyar Valley Trek:
Udaipur Community Health Center is the closest hospital in case of an emergency. For better facilities, you need to travel all the way back to Manali, a 3 hr drive from Khanjer.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Miyar Valley Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
There are two distinct seasons for the Miyar Valley trek – June-July (Summer) and August-September (Monsoon) .
Miyar Valley in Summer (June-July)
Day time: Between 18 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 10 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: You may find snow patches on the trail, with an increased chance of hard snow closer to Miyar Glacier.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
In Summer, although you will find patches of hard snow at higher altitudes, the temperature during the day will be slightly warmer than that in Monsoon, when there won’t be any snow on the trek.
Even the air is different. While Summer is dry and crisp, Monsoon is moist.
It’s that time of the year when winter has left the slopes. But, you will still find snow patches on the ground above 10,000 feet.
In Summer, expect pleasant daytime temperatures around 20 °C. But at night it dips to almost zero levels.
During the day if the sun goes behind the clouds and there is about of rain, then the temperature can fall to around 15 °C.
Miyar Valley in Monsoon (August - September)
Day time: Between 15 °C and 18 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 5 °C and 0 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow, except for the Miyar Glacier in Monsoon.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
Monsoon is slightly like winter. Colder than Summer, although you won’t find patches of snow.
Nights in Monsoon get chilly. In September the temperature dips to 0° C.
During the day, you will experience temperatures around 15° C. But any rain or slight drizzle brings down the temperature by a few degrees. So keep a jacket handy with you always.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Miyar Valley Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Your trek to Miyar Valley begins right from the heart of Manali . The most prominent town in the Kullu District of Himachal Pradesh, Manali needs no introduction for a trekker.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 8.00 am from Beas Bridge in Manali .
We recommend that you reach Manali by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Manali by 24th August. This gives you a buffer to account for unexpected delays and also allows you to rest well before starting your trek.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Manali:
Manali is easily accessible by road from Delhi and Chandigarh . However, the stretch beyond Mandi on NH-3 is prone to frequent landslides, often leading to delays. Keep this in mind while planning your journey.
The easiest way to reach the Manali is to:
Fly to Delhi , take a direct bus from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Manali
Fly to Chandigarh , take a direct bus from Chandigarh to Manali .
Flight options to reach Manali:
Pro Tip: If the flights to Chandigarh are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Manali. Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Chandigarh. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Chandigarh is less than Rs 1000, then book for Chandigarh. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Miyar Valley Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Miyar Valley Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Miyar Valley Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Miyar Valley Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What is the best way to reach Manali? expand accordion
There are overnight buses from Delhi and Chandigarh to Manali. It takes 12 to 14 hours for the bus from Delhi to reach Manali. The journey from Chandigarh is shorter by a couple of hours.
So the best way to get there would be to fly to Chandigarh / Delhi and take a bus to Manali.
Is it safe in Manali? expand accordion
Yes, Manali is a safe hill station to be in because it is a popular tourist destination, buzzing with people from various nationalities almost throughout the year. You will find a range of hotels (for all budgets), cafes, and eateries popping up at every turn.
How fit do I need to be for the Miyar Valley trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Miyar Valley requires a good fitness level. The trek has long walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 35 minutes.
How many trekkers are in a single group? expand accordion
On the Miyar Valley trek, we usually take around 20- 23 trekkers in total.
Can I take my child along on this trek? What is the age limit? expand accordion
The Miyar Valley trek is suitable for anyone above the age of 14 years. However, you need to ensure that your child is physically fit for the trek.
How many months in advance should I book the Miyar Valley Trek? expand accordion
Miyar Valley has a short trekking window of 3 months. You should be booking this trek at least 2-3 months in advance.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Miyar Valley Trek? expand accordion
Manali and Shukto (in Himachal Pradesh) are the last places where you’ll get a mobile network and internet connection. You won’t find any network on the Miyar Valley Trek.
As per electricity, There is no electricity throughout the trek. The only place you’ll find a plug to charge your phone or camera batteries will be Shukto (in Himachal Pradesh) before and after the trek.
Therefore use your electronic equipment wisely. Fully charge your batteries before leaving your hotel and use your electronic equipment minimally.
Note: the cold temperatures drain the batteries faster. Having extra batteries or power banks helps.
Is offloading available for this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading at Miyar Valley is Rs 2,400 for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.