Mount Rinjani Trek 2026 | Indonesia’s Iconic Volcano Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Mount Rinjani Trek
Trek to Indonesia's Second Highest Volcano
We are not running the Mount Rinjani Trek in 2026. However, if you are looking to do an international trek with Indiahikes in 2026, you can check the Georgia Atsunta Pass Trek. View Georgia Atsunta Pass Trek
Trek to Indonesia's Second Highest Volcano
Towering at 12,224 feet on the island of Lombok, Mount Rinjani is the second highest volcano in Indonesia. As you climb, puffs of smoke spew out of the crater right beside you. But if you thought this trek is all about smoke and ash, think again. The variety of terrain on the Mt. Rinjani Trek will stump you. You'll see a side of Indonesia you wouldn't have imagined.
Your trek begins in the wide golden savannas of Sembalun village. Wild deer graze at the trail's edges. Rinjani's dark cone fills the sky ahead. Then the savanna thins, the trail steepens, and after a brutal stretch, you arrive at the crater rim. Two thousand feet below lies Segara Anak — Child of the Sea. A crescent shaped lake of deep aquamarine, warmed from below by magma. You camp on the crater rim that night, the lake two thousand feet below you.
play video
You set out at 2 am from the rim in pitch darkness and freezing cold. The trail is steep volcanic scree — loose, sliding, relentless. Somewhere around 5 am, the crater rim opens up. Below, Segara Anak glows in the early light. In the distance, a glistening blue ocean. Where the ocean ends and the sky begins, no one can tell. In this setting, you witness one of the most dramatic sunrises of your life.
Read more
expand overview
You set out at 2 am from the rim in pitch darkness and freezing cold. The trail is steep volcanic scree — loose, sliding, relentless. Somewhere around 5 am, the crater rim opens up. Below, Segara Anak glows in the early light. In the distance, a glistening blue ocean. Where the ocean ends and the sky begins, no one can tell. In this setting, you witness one of the most dramatic sunrises of your life.
This is where the most difficult parts of the trek get over. The rest of it is like a hard-earned reward.From the summit, you descend into the caldera, down to the shores of Segara Anak. Hot springs bubble out of the volcanic earth at the water's edge, crater walls rising 2,000 feet around you.
The next two days are a completely different world. Streams, tall lush trees and waterfalls of a thick tropical rainforest. There is no trace of the volcanic ridgeline you were on just hours ago. Each day of this trek is so different in terrain, flora and fauna that it feels like you are doing three different treks rolled into one.
Having said all of this, Mt. Rinjani is a difficult trek. It demands a great deal from you. But come prepared, and what it gives back is incomparable to anything else you will experience on any other trek.
Trek Inclusions
Accommodation
Stay is included from Day 1 (Sembalun) to Day 4 (final campsite). You will be staying at a homestay on the first day and the rest of the days will be camping in 3-sharing tents.
Meals
All meals from dinner at Sembalun on Day 1 to lunch at Torean on Day 5.
Camping Charges
All trek permits inside the National Park and camping charges are included.
P.S. A mandatory medical check-up is conducted by doctors (associated with the national park). This comes at a cost. This is also included in your trek fee.
Trek Equipment
High-quality tents and sleeping bags are included in your trek fee. Technical equipment like ice axes, ropes, microspikes, gaiters etc., are also provided as and when required.
Safety Equipment
Your Trek Leader is fully trained and comes equipped with a High Altitude Medical Kit with all necessary medicine and medical equipment for accurate diagnosis and treatment on the trek.
Travel during the trek duration
All the travel from the Day 1 Pickup point (Epicentrum mall) to the start point of the trek and back to the hotel at Mataram after the trek. Incase you want to head on to Gili Islands, get down at Bangsal (is one of the pickup points. You can take a ferry to Gili Islands).
Trek Exclusions
Food during transit
Any food or snack you have before Day 1 pickup and after final dropoff point to Mataram / harbor is in your own expense.
Accommodation in Mataram
Stay in Mataram on Day 0 is at your own expense.
P.S. Red Doors is a good stay option that you can opt for and is just 200 metres from the pick-up point (Epicentrum Mall).
Tipping
As an organization we strongly discourage Tipping culture. However, when we are visiting places outside India, we have to take into account the current local customs until a better norm is established. Whether we like it it not, Tipping has become a customary practice and an integral part of the culture on this Rinjani trek. The usual expectation is about INR 800 to INR 1000 per person in a decently sized group of 12 to 15. It is best for one of the team member to collect from all participants and hand it over to the guides (divide the pool equally between all guides) at the end of the trek while thanking them for their service. Please carry enough cash in local currency for this to make this as smooth and quick as possible.
Anything apart from inclusions
Trek and Travel insurance
For international treks, the insurance fee is not included in the trek cost. However, we highly recommend getting insurance. At Indiahikes, we trust ASC360 and recommend applying through them. Click here to know why .
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
Indiahikes shall not be held responsible for any flight delays or cancellations. Flight recommendations provided by Indiahikes are for reference only, and trekkers are advised to verify schedules and make necessary arrangements independently.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the base camp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork. I may seek guidance from Indiahikes regarding the process; however, Indiahikes shall not be held liable if I am unable to obtain the required documents.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Mount Rinjani - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 0
Arrive in Lombok, and reach the pickup point at Senggigi Port
Arrive at Pandang Bai. Take a ferry to Lombok Island.
Note: Arriving in Lombok a day before the pickup from Senggigi Port is important. You may also consider this day as an acclimatisation day. This is necessary because Lombok is;
a hot and humid place
And immediately on Day 2 you trek to 8600 ft from 3750ft (an altitude gain of 4850ft).
(This makes our body more susceptible to altitude sickness.)
Day 1
Pick up near the Senggigi Port, and meet the team. Drive to Senaru Village
Drive Distance: 90 km | Duration: 3 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: near Senggigi Port | Pick up time: 9 am.
Meet the team and get briefed about the trek. Reach the first base camp and get organized for the trek. After reaching Senaru, the mandatory medical check before the trek might be initiated based on the officials' availability.
Day 2
Drive from Senaru to Sembalun. Trek to Crater Rim Campsite
Drive Distance: 33 km | Drive Duration: 1 hour | Trek distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude gain: 3,750 ft to 8,600 ft
Difficult. Get a medical check-up if it was not completed the previous day. There is almost a 5000 ft altitude gain, so ensure the right preparation for the day in terms of nutrition and hydration.
Day 3
Trek to the summit of Mount Rinjani and back to Segara Anak Lake Campsite
Trek distance: 10 km | Duration: 13-14 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 8,600 ft to 6,600 ft via 12,200 ft
Difficult. Crater rim to summit (start by 2 AM), back to brunch at crater rim, and then trek to lake campsite. The initial summit climb is steep and made difficult by slippery, loose soil. This is followed by a long trek to the lake campsite.
Day 4
Trek from Segara Anak Lake Campsite to final campsite
Trek distance: 5 km | Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude loss: 6,600 ft to 4,600 ft
Moderate-Difficult. An adventurous trail with stream crossings, narrow ledges, and forest sections. A relatively relaxed day after lunch at the campsite.
Day 5
Trek from the final campsite to Torean village. Drive from Torean to the final drop-off point at Senggigi Port
Trek distance: 8 km | Duration: 6-7 hours | Drive distance: 55 km | Duration: 1.5 hours | Altitude loss: 4,600 ft to 1,900 ft (Trek), Drive back to sea level.
Easy-Moderate. Final day of the Trek, through forest trails into Torean village. After a quick lunch, head back to civilization at Senggigi Port.
Note: If you are heading to the Gili Islands, get off at Bangsal (one of the drop points). Then take a ferry from there to the Gili Islands.
IMPORTANT POINTS
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Trekking, by nature, is subject to last-minute uncertainty. Book flexible flight tickets so that you don't lose out on your flight charges in case of cancellations/rescheduling.
➤ Mandatory Documents required: It is mandatory for trekkers to carry an original Passport for entry inside the Rinjani National Park.
➤ Keep a watch on the Visa site for any changes in the law on things to be carried inside the state. Along with this, you need to carry the medical certificate and disclaimer form for the trek.
➤ Stay facility: In Sembalun, your stay will be arranged in a homestay/lodge. On the trek, you will be staying 3 in a tent.
➤ Cloakroom facility for excess luggage: You may leave behind the luggage that you won't need on the trek at your hotel, near the reception. There will not be any specific cloakroom facility with lockers.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 0
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Previous
Next
Day 0: Arrive in Lombok, and reach the pickup point at Senggigi Port
This is the day of reaching Lombok Island.
Recommended Route:
Read More
This is the day of reaching Lombok Island.
Recommended Route:
Arrive at Pandang Bai. Take a ferry to Lombok Island.
Alternative Route (Not Recommended):
Arrive directly at Lombok via Air.
Disclaimer: Lombok Airport is a small regional airport, and most flights arriving here operate as connecting services. This can limit flight options and may result in longer travel times or fewer scheduling choices for tekkers.
Note: Arriving in Lombok a day before the pickup from Senggigi Port is important. You may also consider this day as an acclimatisation day. This is necessary because Lombok is;
a hot and humid place
And immediately on Day 2, you trek to 8600 ft from 3750ft (an altitude gain of 4850ft).
(This makes our body more susceptible to altitude sickness.)
We recommend plenty of rest and not indulging in energy-draining activities on this day. A good beachside stroll and walking the local market streets shall energize you as well as help acclimatize to the local weather faster.
Day 1 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 1: Pick up near the Senggigi Port and meet the team. Drive to Senaru Village.
Drive distance: 90 km | Duration: 3 hours
Pick up point : Near Senggigi Port | Pick up time: 9 am
A day full of expectation and excitement to start the first leg of the trek. Plan and be ahead of pick up time at the pick up location (Near Senggig Port). You will be meeting the entire team and starting the first leg of the journey - starting point at the base of Mount Rinjani.
After a short drive to the accommodation location in Sembalun village, you will start preparing for the long trek the next day.
All the necessary information related to trek shall be briefed and all necessary authority permissions shall be obtained. There is a mandatory medical check of the trekkers which is usually completed today or done early morning the next day based on officials availability.
Read More
A day full of expectation and excitement to start the first leg of the trek. Plan and be ahead of pick up time at the pick up location (Near Senggig Port). You will be meeting the entire team and starting the first leg of the journey - starting point at the base of Mount Rinjani.
After a short drive to the accommodation location in Sembalun village, you will start preparing for the long trek the next day.
All the necessary information related to trek shall be briefed and all necessary authority permissions shall be obtained. There is a mandatory medical check of the trekkers which is usually completed today or done early morning the next day based on officials availability.
Utilize the free time to get to know the team members. Sleep early and get enough rest before the trail starts tomorrow.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Drive from Senaru to Sembalun. Trek to Crater Rim Campsite.
Trek Distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 8-9 hours
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 4,900 ft (3,750 ft to 8,650 ft)
Difficulty: Difficult.
Drive Distance: 33 km | Drive Duration: 1 hour
The day starts early by 7 am with a gentle trail starting from Sembalun, with views of Mt. Rinjani right in front of you.
The dirt trail is wide, to begin with. You will find motorbikes navigating the trails and a few parking spots for these bikes along the trail.
You descend initially, followed by an ascent through the forest section.
Read More
The day starts early by 7 am with a gentle trail starting from Sembalun, with views of Mt. Rinjani right in front of you.
The dirt trail is wide, to begin with. You will find motorbikes navigating the trails and a few parking spots for these bikes along the trail.
You descend initially, followed by an ascent through the forest section.
Approximately an hour into the trek, you arrive at a bridge where you can take a small break. The river bed is usually brimming over with water during the rainy season.
The trail meanders through expansive grasslands for the next hour and 20 minutes. As you walk towards the next point, you will notice clouds slowly enveloping the entire valley.
The dirt trail continues until POS 2, also the last point where motorbikes can venture. The area tends to be crowded and bustling with activity. Many people gather here, with porters whipping up hearty meals for weary and hungry trekkers.
While making your way towards POS 3, you will come across a section of the canyon that was washed away during an earthquake in 2018. The earthquake has altered the trail, leaving behind a visible mudslide carving the path.
The area is a treasure of geological history. Keep an eye out on the trail for evidence of Mt. Rinjani's first historic eruption.
Soon, you start leaving the tree line behind and walk towards the grasslands. The trail gradually ascends for the first 30 minutes. The next section gets much steeper as you continue on your way.
You will truly appreciate your trekking poles from POS 3! The trail ahead ascends steeply. In one section, you will even find yourself climbing a ladder. The trek is still breathtakingly beautiful, despite the arduous climb and winds its way through dense clusters of trees.
You will reach Sembalun campsite between 3-4 pm. On a clear day, trekkers are blessed with views of the mountains glowing softly at sunset.
Get plenty of rest. We recommend turning it in early tonight. You must target at least 6 hours of sleep before your summit climb the next day.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek to the summit and back to Lake Segara Anak campsite
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 13-14 hours
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 3,600 ft; ⇘ 5,600 (8,600 ft to 6,600 ft via 12,200 ft)
Difficulty: Difficult
Today is the big climb to the summit. Your day starts before the sun rises. Trekkers should ideally wake up around 1:30 am and start the trek by 3 am.
The trek from the Crater rim campsite to the summit and back to Lake Segara Anak campsite takes 13 to 14 hours to complete. The ascent to the summit is around 4-5 hours, while the descent takes approximately 2 hours back towards crater rim campsite. From there on, trek is a very steep descent towards Lake Segara Anak campsite.
The trek commences with a challenging uphill climb through dark, ashy-lava soil. To make the ascent a little easier, use your trekking poles for support and lean forward with your body weight. Take small and careful steps. Keep going until you reach the ridge section.
Read More
Today is the big climb to the summit. Your day starts before the sun rises. Trekkers should ideally wake up around 1:30 am and start the trek by 3 am.
The trek from the Crater rim campsite to the summit and back to Lake Segara Anak campsite takes 13 to 14 hours to complete. The ascent to the summit is around 4-5 hours, while the descent takes approximately 2 hours back towards crater rim campsite. From there on, trek is a very steep descent towards Lake Segara Anak campsite.
The trek commences with a challenging uphill climb through dark, ashy-lava soil. To make the ascent a little easier, use your trekking poles for support and lean forward with your body weight. Take small and careful steps. Keep going until you reach the ridge section.
Once on the ridge, the trail takes a steep ascent again. You will meet other groups of trekkers, also on their way to the summit. The climb is tough, but the wonderful camaraderie and shared experience keep everyone going!
Dawn begins to break as you make your way towards the summit of Mt. Rinjani. The first rays of daylight gradually peek through. Remember that there is even more beauty and tranquillity waiting for you at the top of the mountain.
The summit has limited space, accommodating 25-30 trekkers at a time for approximately half an hour. Yet, the views from the summit for those 30 minutes will remain etched in your memory.
Before you is the vast blue expanse of Segara Anak, the enchanting crater lake. Towering mountains stand on the opposite side and form a majestic backdrop. On a clear day, you can see the island of Bali from the summit.
For the descent, retrace your steps towards the ridge and make your way down. Remember to tread carefully since the path is all volcanic ash. Please don’t be fooled by the photo. The path is extremely slippery. You need good knee stability to navigate safely.
Upon reaching the campsite, wind up and prepare for your descent to the Lake Camp.
Start moving towards the trail that led you to the summit. After a few minutes, you will notice a path veering downward to the left. The trail is a steep descent through rocky sections, some of which have fixed ropes for support. Take extra care as you make your way down.
The landscape will gradually transition into the grassland area. Follow the gentle trails until you arrive at two bridges. Once you cross the final river bed filled with rocks, the Lake Segara Anak campsite isn’t too far. It takes around 3 hours to reach the campsite from here.
Enjoy lunch and get some well-deserved rest at the campsite. Once you're feeling rejuvenated, take some time to explore the lake surroundings. Walk to a nearby hot spring and soak yourself in it. It relaxes all your muscle cramps and makes you feel refreshed. Explore a lovely waterfall section nearby. You will notice that only a few plant species grow in the lake’s vicinity. If you’re lucky, you might spot some fish in the lake.
There is plenty of fascinating natural phenomena to observe around the campsite. Keep an eye out for areas where the ground's sulfur mixes with the lake.
Take the evening to unwind and enjoy this lakeside serenity.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Trek from Segara Anak Lake Campsite to final campsite
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 2,000 (6,600 ft to 4,600 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate-Difficult
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
The trek today is approximately 5-6 hours as you make your way down towards final campsite before Torean village. This particular route is shorter and more picturesque compared to the Senaru route. Senaru takes roughly an hour or more to descend.
Your adventure begins with a descent towards a river. Keep walking further down the valley. The trail also involves climbing down several step ladders before entering the vast grasslands.
If you’ve ever wondered what entering a lost world is like, this trail comes pretty close! Majestic cliffs and breathtaking overhangs surround you. Take a moment to soak in the sweeping views of the valley.
Read More
The trek today is approximately 5-6 hours as you make your way down towards final campsite before Torean village. This particular route is shorter and more picturesque compared to the Senaru route. Senaru takes roughly an hour or more to descend.
Your adventure begins with a descent towards a river. Keep walking further down the valley. The trail also involves climbing down several step ladders before entering the vast grasslands.
If you’ve ever wondered what entering a lost world is like, this trail comes pretty close! Majestic cliffs and breathtaking overhangs surround you. Take a moment to soak in the sweeping views of the valley.
The trail only gets better. You encounter waterfalls gently cascading down the mountainside. The landscape is a picture of serenity, with sparkling waters set against a lush green backdrop.
After an hour of trekking, you arrive at an exposed section. Using fixed ropes becomes necessary here. Although this section appears relatively small, it demands your complete focus to descend safely. Take one step at a time and be confident with your footing.
After a gradual descent, you will arrive at the final campsite of the trek. Compared to the previous 2 days, the trek on this day is short and relaxing helping you to soak in the nature around and reminisce the summit experience once more with all the team members.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from final campsite to Torean village, drive to final drop-off point.
Trek Distance: 8 kms | Duration: 6-7 hrs | Drive distance: 55 km | Duration: 1.5 hours
Altitude Loss: 2,700 (4,600 ft to 1,900 ft), drive back to sea level
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate
On this final day of your trek, you leave the grasslands behind, prepare to be awestruck by Indonesia's legendary rainforests. You walk past majestic trees, dense foliage, and vibrant flora. The only sounds-you hear are birdsong and the rustling of leaves. Throughout, the hush of the rainforest keeps you company:
The trail then takes you to sections where fallen logs pave the way. Continue descending to reach the endpoint of the trek. As you walk, take a moment to reminisce and cherish the memories of the past few days:
After lunch at Torean village, you will drive down to main road in a camper van owing to the small, hilly reads. From the main road you will board regular bus which shall take you back to pickup point in Senggigi Port or mid way drop you at Gilli harbor.
Read More
On this final day of your trek, you leave the grasslands behind, prepare to be awestruck by Indonesia's legendary rainforests. You walk past majestic trees, dense foliage, and vibrant flora. The only sounds-you hear are birdsong and the rustling of leaves. Throughout, the hush of the rainforest keeps you company:
The trail then takes you to sections where fallen logs pave the way. Continue descending to reach the endpoint of the trek. As you walk, take a moment to reminisce and cherish the memories of the past few days:
After lunch at Torean village, you will drive down to main road in a camper van owing to the small, hilly reads. From the main road you will board regular bus which shall take you back to pickup point in Senggigi Port or mid way drop you at Gilli harbor.
If you plan to explore further, you can continue with your adventures at Lombok or move to nearby Gili islands or Bali.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
How Difficult is the Rinjani Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 36 km in four trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 8,474 ft (3,750 ft to 12,224 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections on steep, uneven trails. Most days involve longer trekking durations.
Terrain:
The trek begins from Sembalun, involving a steady climb through open grasslands before reaching the exposed sections near the crater rim. From Sembalum to Crater Rim, you gain almost 5000 ft in elevation. The climb is steep and poses a real test for your strength and stamina.
Your final ascent to the summit is particularly demanding, featuring. You trek on steep, rocky trails with loose volcanic scree. The climb starts very early to reach the summit by sunrise. The darkness, the cold and the high winds add many layers of difficulty to this ascent.
After summiting, the trail descends sharply to the caldera, leading to the Segara Anak Lake. Descending over volcanic scree is even more challenging than climbing up. It is very easy to lose your footing.
The descent via the Senaru route takes you through dense tropical rainforests. The trail can be slippery, especially after rainfall, necessitating caution.
Besides the altitude and steep climbs, be prepared for a challenging hike across scree, gravel, and loose, lava-black soil. The soft terrain makes every step a struggle, as your feet sink into the ground, slowing your progress and increasing exhaustion. To add to the challenge, the dry, loose soil constantly kicks up dust, making the trek even more strenuous.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rain can make the scree sections treacherous and turn forest trails slushy, adding to the challenge.
Particularly at higher altitudes and during nighttime, temperatures can drop significantly, requiring warm clothing.
The summit and crater rim areas are prone to high winds. Layer up adequately to beat the wind chill.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Immediately on the first day of the trek, you gain almost 5000 ft in elevation. On the summit day, you gain more than 3000 ft again and climb to 12,200 ft above sea level. Two back-to-back days of rapid elevation gain make you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete Guide to Acute Mountain Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
If you are at the Crater Rim Camp, it is easier to descend to Sembalun.
If you have already crossed beyond the summit of Mt. Rinjani, descend towards the Torean village.
Closest Hospital to Mt. Rinjani:
If The nearest medical facilities are located in the towns surrounding Mount Rinjani, with more comprehensive services available in Mataram, the provincial capital of Lombok.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
How to Get Fit for the Mount Rinjani Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Mount Rinjani Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Mount Rinjani Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Mount Rinjani Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Best Time to do the Rinjani Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The Mt. Rinjani Trek is open for trekking between April to December . Rinjani National Park remains closed from January till the end of March due to heavy rainfall and extreme weather. April and December are bordering seasons where visitors may encounter more rain.
May to July: (Carry four warm layers)
Day time: 25 to 30 degrees (hot and humid)
Night time: 8 to 15 degrees
Early Morning: 4 to 5 degrees
July to September are ideal for clearer views . (Carry five warm layers)
Day time: around 15 to 20 degrees
Night time: 3 to 4 degrees
How to Reach Lombok
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
Option 1: Fly to Bali and take a ferry to Lombok - Senggigi Port (Recommended Route)
Flying to Bali directly will save you a lot of time. It takes about 7-8 hours. It takes half the amount of time compared to flying to Lombok, as that involves a layover.
From Bali, you can take a ferry to Lombok.
Ekajaya is a good ferry option that you can opt for - It takes around 3 hours to reach Lombok, costing Rs 2000 - Rs 3000 to and fro. You can book online in advance from websites like 12go.asia or gilibookings.com . If not, go to Bangsal harbour and book your ferry there.
Semiah 1 is another good ferry option.
Option 2: Flying to Lombok International Airport (Not Recommended)
The average flight duration from India to Lombok is typically between 12 and 15 hours, with flights connecting via Singapore or Kuala Lumpur.
Pro Tip: In our experience, international flights departing from Chennai tend to be more cost-effective compared to direct flights from Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, or Hyderabad.
Starting your journey from Chennai can potentially save you anything between Rs 5,000-7,000. If you opt to split your travel and book separate legs, there are chances you will save an additional amount of approximately Rs 1,500.
Disclaimer: Lombok Airport is a small regional airport, and most flights arriving here operate as connecting services. This can limit flight options and may result in longer travel times or fewer scheduling choices for tekkers.
Note: If bookings are done months in advance, the airfare costs can range from approximately Rs 38,000 to Rs 45,000.
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
1. How long is the Rinjani Trek? expand accordion
The route from Sembalun to Torean via the Rinjani summit is approximately 33 km. You will cover this over a span of 3-4 days.
2. Can the Rinjani trek be done on your own? How to get permits for the trek? expand accordion
The government has recently made it mandatory for trekkers to have a local guide on the Mt. Rinjani Trek.
One can apply for permissions online (the language is Bahasa Sasak). You and your guide can complete the signup process before starting the trek. Trekkers must submit their passport details to obtain permission.
Only 150 trekkers are allowed inside Mt. Rinjani National Park on any given day.
3. What is the food like on the Rinjani trek? expand accordion
When it comes to vegetarian food, these are the items you can expect on the trek:
Steamed Rice with coconut curry
Tofu
Rice crips and veggies
Egg, sandwich with tea
Soup noodles
Pancake, Omellete
Nasi Goreng
Non-vegetarian food is otherwise a staple here. Fish oil is a popular condiment for cooking most dishes.
4. Is Tipping a Culture on the Rinjani Trek? expand accordion
As an organization we strongly discourage Tipping culture. However, when we are visiting places outside India, we have to take into account the current local customs until a better norm is established. Whether we like it it not, Tipping has become a customary practice and an integral part of the culture on this Rinjani trek. The usual expectation is about INR 800 to INR 1000 per person in a decently sized group of 12 to 15.
It is best for one of the team member to collect from all participants and hand it over to the guides (divide the pool equally between all guides) at the end of the trek while thanking them for their service. Please carry enough cash in local currency for this to make this as smooth and quick as possible.
5. What about the water sources on the trek? expand accordion
Unfortunately, bottled water is the only water source during the trek. Porters carry sufficient amounts for the duration of the trek.
The trail may have natural spring water. However, it is best utilized for cleaning and not ideal for drinking.
Alternatively, you can consider carrying a water purification bottle from Lifestraw or similar brand.
6. Do you get any network connectivity on the trek? expand accordion
Trekkers will get intermittent mobile networks on some parts of the trail. It’s always a good idea to check with your guides or the locals. They are familiar with nooks and corners where network connectivity might be better.
7. Is there any cloakroom facility for the trek? expand accordion
Trekkers can keep one extra bag at the hotel before starting the trek. You can collect the bag from us after your trek. Please ensure it doesn’t contain valuables or large sums of money.
8. What about the toilet facilities for the trek? expand accordion
Trekkers can use toilet tents at the campsites. The team digs a cat hole, with toilet tents that function as the enclosure. The pit is covered once the campsite shuts.
You will also find a few toilet sheds made of tin on the trail. Do not expect these toilets to be clean since everyone trekking to Mt. Rinjani uses them.
9. How many trekkers stay in a tent on this trek? expand accordion
Two trekkers will be sharing a tent on this trek.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.