Nafran Valley Trek 2026 | Kashmir’s Hidden Alpine Valley Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Nafran Valley
A trek that can rival Tarsar Marsar and Kashmir Great Lakes trek's beauty
We have called off this trek for 2026. Consider the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek instead.
With grand meadows and a dramatic crossover to Spiti, we rank Pin Bhaba among Our Top 3 Treks of All Time. View the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
A trek that can rival Tarsar Marsar and Kashmir Great Lakes trek's beauty
For a long time, we’ve been looking for another trek in Kashmir that matches up to our blockbuster treks, Kashmir Great Lakes and Tarsar Marsar .
For us finding anything that compares to the great two is like looking for an elephant with wings. “It’s near impossible for any trek to compare with the Kashmir Great Lakes or the Tarsar Marsar. It is hard to match up to the grand meadows, the turquoise blue lakes and picture-perfect landscapes of these two treks,” says Sandhya UC, who led the exploration and documentation of the Kashmir Great Lakes (2011) and Tarsar Marsar (2015) treks.
play video
“We have looked for trails in the remote parts of Kashmir, Jammu, around Naranag, near Margan Pass, even towards the Thajiwas glacier. While each of these is beautiful, there’s always been some issue. Either the trek is too short, too monotonous, runs through disturbed areas, or has incomplete trails,” says Sandhya.
Read more
expand overview
“We have looked for trails in the remote parts of Kashmir, Jammu, around Naranag, near Margan Pass, even towards the Thajiwas glacier. While each of these is beautiful, there’s always been some issue. Either the trek is too short, too monotonous, runs through disturbed areas, or has incomplete trails,” says Sandhya.
Now, for the first time in seven years, we have found a trek that matches up to the KGL and Tarsar Marsar in grandeur, variety and the kickback.
We are talking about the Nafran Valley trek.
When the first exploration team returned, they were singing praises of the trek. They claimed it was as good, or even prettier than the Tarsar Marsar. We took it with a pinch of salt. Everything in Kashmir is beautiful. But was it matching up to Tarsar Marsar?
So we sent another exploration team to truly assess the trail. Does it have a variety — of forests, meadows, lakes, and alpine experiences? Does it have terrific camping options? Does it promise adventure? These are all questions they went with.
And did they come back with answers and how! They came back with photographic evidence, a day to day assessment of the trek and 4 great reasons why the trek is outstanding.
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Nafran Valley : Explore Nafran Valley, a trek that can rival the famous KGL and Tarsar Marsar Treks by its scenic beauty, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Aru: Experience the rich culture of Aru Valley over your stay at an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Aru on Day 1 to lunch at Aru on Day 7 are included.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Srinagar to Aru costs Rs 4000 per vehicle for an SUV (5-6 Seater) and Rs. 6000 per Tempo Traveller (12-Seater), which is to be shared by trekkers availing the pick-up. All vehicles are Non-AC.
On Day 7, the drop-off directly to Srinagar from Aru costs Rs 4500 per vehicle for an SUV (5-6 Seater), which is to be shared by trekkers availing the pick-up. All vehicles are Non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.4800 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Nafran Valley - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a surficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Nafran Valley trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Nafran Valley trek
Day 1
Drive from Srinagar to Aru
Drive Distance: 100 km | Drive Duration: 3-4 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels
The cost of transport from Srinagar to Aru is Rs 600 per trekker for an SUV and Rs 6,000 for the entire vehicle in the case of a tempo traveler. We will pick you up from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu Barbara Shah Chowk, Srinagar at 8 am.
Aru to Srinagar is a bit more expensive. The cost of transport is Rs 4,500 per vehicle. A maximum of 7 trekkers may generally sit in an Innova or a Tavera.
Note : The process of your registration, health screening, and document verification starts at 4.00 PM. Ensure you reach Aru on time for it. Do not travel elsewhere on this particular day before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Aru to Arram Pathri
Trek Distance: 8.5 km | Trek Duration: 6.5-8 hours | Altitude Gain: 7960 ft to 10374 ft
Moderate to Difficult
Day 3
Trek from Arram Pathri to Nafran Valley via Arram Pathri Ridge
Trek Distance: 8.25 km | Trek Duration: 6.5 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 10374 ft to 11358 ft via 11482 ft
Easy to Moderate
Day 4
Trek from Nafran Valley to Harnag Lake via Harnag Pass
Trek Distance: 9.5 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11358 ft to 12099 ft via 12509 ft
Moderate
Day 5
Trek from Harnag Lake to Harbhagwan Lake and back to Harnag Lake
Trek Distance: 9.20 km | Trek Duration: 9 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 12099 ft to 13,789 ft and back
Difficult
Day 6
Trek from Harnag Lake to Arram Pathri
Trek Distance: 7.15 km | Trek Duration: 5.5 hours | Altitude Loss: 12099 ft to 11,482 ft
Easy to Moderate
Day 7
Trek from Arram Pathri to Aru. Drive to Srinagar
Trek Distance: 8.20 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude Loss: 11,854 ft to 7960 ft
Easy. You are expected to reach Srinagar by 8.00 PM. Cost will be Rs 3,000 per cab (5-6 Seater).
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
IMPORTANT POINTS
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
➤ Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Srinagar to Aru
Drive Duration: 3 hours | Drive Distance: 100 km
Highlights: There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
Pahalgam is about 100 km from Srinagar and Aru is 12 km away from Pahalgam. Pahalgam is a more familiar place around Srinagar so if you are reaching on your own, take a shared vehicle from Srinagar to Pahalgam. It takes about 3 hours to get there.
There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
From Pahalgam, Aru is right across the Lidder River. It takes another half an hour to cover this distance. Today, after a 3.5 hours drive from Srinagar you reach Aru by 4 pm. There are plenty of places to stay at Aru, though they are a tad expensive. Indiahikes trekkers will stay in a homestay at the campsite.
Read More
Pahalgam is about 100 km from Srinagar and Aru is 12 km away from Pahalgam. Pahalgam is a more familiar place around Srinagar so if you are reaching on your own, take a shared vehicle from Srinagar to Pahalgam. It takes about 3 hours to get there.
There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
From Pahalgam, Aru is right across the Lidder River. It takes another half an hour to cover this distance. Today, after a 3.5 hours drive from Srinagar you reach Aru by 4 pm. There are plenty of places to stay at Aru, though they are a tad expensive. Indiahikes trekkers will stay in a homestay at the campsite.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Aru to Arram Pathri
Trek Duration: 6.5 to 8 hours | Trek Distance: 8.5 km
Altitude Loss and Gain: 7960 ft to 7,640 ft, and to 10374 ft
Difficulty: Moderate to Difficult. Gentle ascent through the forest with open patches in between, followed by dense coniferous forests. Can get quite slushy in the monsoon.
Water sources: Carry sufficient water. Fresh drinking water source is a challenge at Bhaj Margi, need to trek down a bit for a fresh stream.
The day starts with a drive to Mondlan, 8 km from Aru which takes 20 minutes. From the roadhead, the trail leads you behind the fence through a gentle slope into the forest with a few walnut trees and occasional open patches.
Look back to take in the scenic view of Pahalgam, far ahead of you.
After about 2 hours, enter the dense coniferous forest and follow the wide, marked trail. This is an easy ascent of about a kilometre. A freshwater stream flows to your left. Refill your water bottles if you are out of the water as this is the only water source till you reach your campsite for the day, Bhaj Margi.
Read More
The day starts with a drive to Mondlan, 8 km from Aru which takes 20 minutes. From the roadhead, the trail leads you behind the fence through a gentle slope into the forest with a few walnut trees and occasional open patches.
Look back to take in the scenic view of Pahalgam, far ahead of you.
After about 2 hours, enter the dense coniferous forest and follow the wide, marked trail. This is an easy ascent of about a kilometre. A freshwater stream flows to your left. Refill your water bottles if you are out of the water as this is the only water source till you reach your campsite for the day, Bhaj Margi.
The walk in the forest is a treat in itself. Enjoy the silence and hear the chirping of birds. If you’re lucky, you get to spot a few species of birds. The tall coniferous trees make way for the golden rays of the sun, and at times the setting is so surreal that you wonder if you’re teleported to a whole new world.
Once the water bottles are filled, cross the stream and walk for a few hundred meters to spot a cluster of shepherd huts (called Gujjar huts). Find an opening out of the forest leading you to the first scenic spot of the day, the Shul Margi meadows. Make sure to spend a few minutes here, rest and recover.
During the flowering season, a plethora of colourful wildflowers ranging from pinks to yellows to whites to blues can be spotted on the grasslands. It is a treat to walk on these rainbow coloured meadows.
From Shul Margi, climb up to the end of the meadows and again find a couple of Gujjar huts. A stream flows on your right. Cross it and follow the well-marked trail to enter the dense coniferous forest again. After a couple of minutes, you are in a small opening, in a meadow. Follow the trail upwards and cross a small water stream.
The trail gets steeper from this point onwards, so be prepared for a tough climb till you spot a makeshift wooden gate. A stream flows on the other side of the gate, a couple of hundred meters off the trail on your left, and this is your second water source for the day. Once you cross the gate, walk for approximately 30 minutes to reach Bhaj Margi meadows, your campsite for the day.
The Bhaj Margi meadows are one of the most picturesque grasslands you will ever see. Horses gallop and sheep graze the soft grass, while you take in the panoramic views of the peaks, the coniferous trees and clear skies, whether from inside the comfort of your tents or outside.
If you arrive at the campsite early, explore the campsite and visit the Dadwar meadows, one and a half hours from Bhaj Margi.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 3: Trek from Arram Pathri to Nafran Valley via Arram Pathri Ridge
Trek Duration: 6.5 hours | Trek Distance: 8.25 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 10374 ft to 11358 ft via 11,482 ft
Difficulty: Easy to moderate. A gradual ascent through the forest with a few tricky sections on the ridge.
Water Source: Carry sufficient water. A few water sources are available all along the trail in case you run out of water.
Today’s trail to Nafran Valley starts right from the Bhaj Margi campsite. It takes you through the coniferous forest with a gradual ascent along the way as soon as the forest section starts. The trail then meanders out of the forest and its forks at this junction.
Follow the trail on your right, and for the next 2.5 km, there is a gradual ascent on an undulating trail which leads you towards the top of Arram Pathri ridge. After about 30 to 45 mins, there is a ridge walk section with slightly steep ascent for about 15 to 20 min. As you approach the top of the ridge, look to your right for a commanding view of both Bhaj Margi and Dadwar meadows.
You come across two to three small streams before reaching the rocky terrain. Proceed with caution here as a few sections are tricky and slippery. The terrain is rocky and it requires firm footing on the ground. A view of Pahalgam Valley awaits you on the left as you traverse through the rocks carefully.
Read More
Today’s trail to Nafran Valley starts right from the Bhaj Margi campsite. It takes you through the coniferous forest with a gradual ascent along the way as soon as the forest section starts. The trail then meanders out of the forest and its forks at this junction.
Follow the trail on your right, and for the next 2.5 km, there is a gradual ascent on an undulating trail which leads you towards the top of Arram Pathri ridge. After about 30 to 45 mins, there is a ridge walk section with slightly steep ascent for about 15 to 20 min. As you approach the top of the ridge, look to your right for a commanding view of both Bhaj Margi and Dadwar meadows.
You come across two to three small streams before reaching the rocky terrain. Proceed with caution here as a few sections are tricky and slippery. The terrain is rocky and it requires firm footing on the ground. A view of Pahalgam Valley awaits you on the left as you traverse through the rocks carefully.
After reaching the highest point at Nafran valley, the descent towards Arram Pathri Ridge is slightly steep and stony for about an hour. Find an opening along the ridge from where you can descend towards Arram Pathri. It is a steep descent of 1,250 ft over 1.5 km, so you must take small steps throughout. You’ll know you have reached Arram Pathri when a cluster of Gujjar huts is visible on the banks of the Nafran river.
If you are out of the water by now, this is the right spot to refill your water bottles.
With Nafran river on your left, follow the trail which is faintly visible at a few places and is filled with boulders. The walk is going to be a long, slow one at the boulder sections. Before reaching Harnag Pass, you’ll traverse through three levels of small grasslands and boulder sections one after the other. The three-step section is similar to the three-step waterfall of the Rupin Pass trek.
The final ascent to the campsite has a boulders and stone section for about 300 mts, but is not well marked, cautiously navigate this section towards the campsite. After more than 6 hours of trek, you’ll reach the Nafran campsite which is surrounded by mountains on three sides in the Nafran Valley. Retire for the day here and soak in the scenery by taking a walk in the valley for the remainder of the day.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 4: Trek from Nafran Valley to Harnag Lake via Harnag Pass
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek Distance: 9.5 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 11358 ft to 12099 ft via 12509 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. The initial flat walk turns into a gradual ascent with a steep ascent for the last kilometre.
Water Source: Carry sufficient water. Small streams flow throughout the trail and act as the water source for the day.
Harnag Pass to the Northeast is 2 km from the Nafran campsite. Proceed towards the pass on the flat trail that slowly gains altitude as you cross a cluster of shepherd huts. More than half of the climb to the pass is steep and it takes a good amount of time to reach the top of the pass because it is full of rocks and boulders.
Again, be very careful here as some of the sections consist of loose rocks and the chances of an ankle twist or slips and falls are high. Adding to the difficulty are slippery boulders due to the stream that flows from the top of the pass. Watch out for them and step only on dry boulders.
From the top of the pass, the wide-open valley of Nafran is spread behind you, while the Harnag valley, with the Harnag lake bang in the centre of it, is visible ahead of you.
Read More
Harnag Pass to the Northeast is 2 km from the Nafran campsite. Proceed towards the pass on the flat trail that slowly gains altitude as you cross a cluster of shepherd huts. More than half of the climb to the pass is steep and it takes a good amount of time to reach the top of the pass because it is full of rocks and boulders.
Again, be very careful here as some of the sections consist of loose rocks and the chances of an ankle twist or slips and falls are high. Adding to the difficulty are slippery boulders due to the stream that flows from the top of the pass. Watch out for them and step only on dry boulders.
From the top of the pass, the wide-open valley of Nafran is spread behind you, while the Harnag valley, with the Harnag lake bang in the centre of it, is visible ahead of you.
Just like the ascent to the pass, the descent also has similar terrain and you must take precautions not to injure yourself.
Make sure to keep to your left-hand side so that you can cross the stream with the help of loose stones that are placed by the shepherds, and follow the trail towards Harnag Lake.
Make your way towards the lake where the streams feed it and exercise caution here as the trail is on a slope and it is washed away by landslides at some places. From here, spot a small extension of the lake on your right and the clearing near the extension is your Harnag campsite.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Harnag Lake to Harbhagwan Lake and back to Harnag Lake
Trek Duration: 9 hours | Trek Distance: 9.2 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 12099 ft to 13,789 ft and back
Difficulty: Difficult. Rocky and bouldery terrain with a steep ascent for almost the entire way.
Water Source: Carry sufficient water. The streams found along the way are your only water source.
This day is going to be long and difficult. The day starts on a well-defined trail in a wide valley and gradually transitions into an undulating trail.
After crossing two streams about 2 km from Harnag Lake, you will reach the Kolahoi glacier viewpoint, and it is from here that you get a glimpse of the massive Kolahoi glacier at the edge of Mt Kolahoi on your left.
Pause the view of the glacier by taking in the spectacle that’s in front of you. It is not every day that you see a glacier in the middle of a valley! Along the glacier, you’ll see the east face of Mt Kolahoi.
Read More
This day is going to be long and difficult. The day starts on a well-defined trail in a wide valley and gradually transitions into an undulating trail.
After crossing two streams about 2 km from Harnag Lake, you will reach the Kolahoi glacier viewpoint, and it is from here that you get a glimpse of the massive Kolahoi glacier at the edge of Mt Kolahoi on your left.
Pause the view of the glacier by taking in the spectacle that’s in front of you. It is not every day that you see a glacier in the middle of a valley! Along the glacier, you’ll see the east face of Mt Kolahoi.
Spot a pointed peak on the right of the glacier. This is your gateway to Harbhagwan Lake. The trail gets steeper from here and it is a 3 km of tough ascent to the lake. The altitude gained just at this stretch is about 2,264 ft. So, traverse this section slowly and be aware of any symptoms of high altitude sickness. You must descend immediately if you’re experiencing any symptoms.
The ascent starts on soft, grassy terrain and has many boulder sections to watch out for. Make your way gingerly over the boulders as they are notorious for ankle twists, slips and falls.
Once you reach a somewhat flat surface on the ridge, the trail faints away and you’ll have to make your way to the lake. A stream that flows from the top is your beacon here. Just follow the stream over a steep ascent and it will take you right to the mouth of Harbhagwan Lake.
Harbhagwan Lake is one of the most beautiful lakes placed in one of the most beautiful settings. Big chunks of ice break off the hanging glacier and feed the pristine blue lake. Spend a good amount of time here before making your way back the same trail till you reach Harnag Lake campsite.
As a bonus, you will spot Mt Kolahoi peak if the skies are clear on the summit day!
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Trek from Harnag Lake to Arram Pathri
Trek Duration: 5.5 hours | Trek Distance: 7.15 km
Altitude Loss: 12,099 ft to 11,482 ft
Difficulty: Easy to Moderate. Flat to gradual ascent and complete descent till Arram Pathri.
Water Source: Carry sufficient water. There are multiple water streams along the way till you reach the campsite.
The tough part of the trek is behind you. Today you make your way to Arram Pathri, a beautiful flat meadow by taking the same trail back to Harnag Pass, all the way to Arram Pathri.
Watch out for moderate to steep descents once you cross Harnag Pass.
Read More
The tough part of the trek is behind you. Today you make your way to Arram Pathri, a beautiful flat meadow by taking the same trail back to Harnag Pass, all the way to Arram Pathri.
Watch out for moderate to steep descents once you cross Harnag Pass.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 7: Trek from Arram Pathri to Aru and Drive to Srinagar
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 8.2 km
Drive Duration: 3-4 hours | Drive Distance: 100 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 3,896 ft (11,854 ft to 7960 ft
Difficulty: Easy. Gentle walk in the valley as you descend to Aru.
Water Source: Carry sufficient water. The Nafran river flowing through the valley is your water source.
Take the trail to the right from Arram Pathri. The trail to the left takes you to Mondlan.
The trail offers a different scenery as you trek through a new section of Nafran valley. Enjoy the mellow walk along the Nafran river by crossing a few streams and the river over a makeshift bridge.
Along the way, you pass through -- Kanzal Pathri and Gagad Pathri -- wide-open valleys and witness the confluence of the Nafran and Ghash Aangan rivers.
Read More
Take the trail to the right from Arram Pathri. The trail to the left takes you to Mondlan.
The trail offers a different scenery as you trek through a new section of Nafran valley. Enjoy the mellow walk along the Nafran river by crossing a few streams and the river over a makeshift bridge.
Along the way, you pass through -- Kanzal Pathri and Gagad Pathri -- wide-open valleys and witness the confluence of the Nafran and Ghash Aangan rivers.
Thick forests with coniferous trees play hide and seek between Gagad Pathri and Kanzal Pathri, while a cluster of shepherd huts reminds you of the civilization at Ghirwad.
It’s a perfect setting to end the trek at Aru, the base camp.
Finish your lunch at Aru and relax for a while before driving back from Aru to Srinagar. If you are trekking with Indiahikes, you are expected to reach Srinagar by 8.00 PM. The cost will be Rs.3,000 per cab (5-6 Seater).
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate- Difficult
Suitable for fit beginners and experienced trekkers
You will cover a total of around 41 km in six trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,565 ft (7,960 ft to 13,789 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections. Several difficult sections on this trek require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
The trail throughout has significant elevation changes, including a challenging climb to Harnag Pass at 12,500 ft. This section is particularly demanding due to its steep and rocky nature.
The climbs on this trek come in long stretches. You’ll also descend the same way, which is tough on your knees.
Certain sections of the trek, especially near Harnag Pass, require careful navigation over large boulders and uneven terrain, increasing the risk of slips and falls.
The trail to Harbhagwan Lake at 13,789 ft, involves strenuous climbs and descents.
There are long days on this trek. Some days go past 10 kilometers.
There are river crossings on this trek. You must be nimble on your feet and be mentally ready to face the biting cold temperature of these glacial streams
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
At the start of the season, when the snow has just melted, the trail can be wet and muddy. The Streams also flow at full force, making the river crossings tricky.
The Nafran Valley Trek falls in the rain-shadow region of Kashmir and rain is usually not a big worry. But exceptions do occur. Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
This is one of those treks where altitude gain is quick. You start low. But in just two trekking days, you’re way above 11,000 feet. That’s a lot of climbing in a short span. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
On the Nafran Valley trek, your best bet is to descend to Mondlan, Aru or Baltal.
When you are deep into the trek—say at Harnag Lake—it easily takes a day to reach the Aru exit. If you cannot afford that much time, check for the alternative route via Baltal, which is 4-5 hours away.
Closest Hospital to the Nafran Valley Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest option is Pahalgam, which is just a 30-mins drive from Aru. If you need serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Nafran Valley Trek
Time your trek reading this
toggle accordion
What is the Best Time to do the Nafran Valley Trek?
The best time to do the Nafran Valley trek is from the second week of July to the beginning of September. It is the traditional monsoon season in the rest of the Indian subcontinent, but things are different in the Kashmir Valley.
Kashmir receives only mild rainfall in July and August. Not at all like in Himachal Pradesh or Uttarakhand. That's because of the Pir Panjal range which prevents most rain clouds from reaching the Kashmir valley.
It’s a boon because it makes for a comfortable trekking experience. In all the other seasons, it’s too cold to trek, the trail and the meadows are buried under snow for the most part.
But even if we look at just one season, the Nafran Valley trek changes appearance and colour throughout the three months - July, August and September.
Nafran Valley in early July
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature: Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Trekking opens on the Nafran Valley trail in the first week of July. Until then the upper reaches are under heavy snow. The lower meadows open earlier.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
When you trek in July you can expect to see remnants of snow by both the lakes on the trek - Harnag and Harbhagwan. You may even see melting ice floes in the lake in early July.
This setting offers a fleeting glimpse of what the landscape looks like for the rest of the year - buried under snow, punctuated with frozen lakes.
Sometimes, even if it’s not the best phase to complete the trek, the sight is spellbinding.
Nafran Valley from mid-July to the third week of August
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature: Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Now, the snow has almost melted, and the trail is carpeted with bright green meadows.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
After mid-July, the Nafran Valley trek starts revealing itself in full glory.
Now, the snow has almost melted. And the trail is carpeted with bright green meadows, which are in contrast with the rugged, grey mountains rising at the fringes. The best part is, that these meadows are densely dotted with so many wildflowers!
You experience this beauty, especially in the Shul Margi and Bhaj Margi plains, as you trek over tiny flowers of colours ranging from violet, red, blue, and purple to yellow and white.
Frozen chunks of the alpine lakes have melted by now. The waters of Harnag and Harbhagwan are deep blue.
Rains -- more like evening showers -- pick up during this time.
Nafran Valley from the end of August to first week of September
Day time temperature: Between 12 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperature: Between 2 °C and 6 °C
There will not be any snow at this time. The green meadows start turning golden brown as we step into September.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
Cold sets in as the season progress to the end of August. The evening showers become frequent. But when the clouds part during this time of the year, you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes.
You will also see a change in the colour of the meadows. They look a bit roasted, just with a tinge of brown. Watch out for this as you camp at Nafran. Also, on the day you trek from Harnag to Harbhagwan.
The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers wilt too. And yet, there’s a beauty to this change of tone.
We usually stop our trek towards the first week of September, but some lone trekkers do attempt it till the end of September. So, it’s doable. But it may not be the most comfortable time, given the cold temperatures.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
How to Reach the Base Camp of Nafran Valley
To reach the Nafran Valley trek, you must travel around 100 km south of Srinagar to Pahalgam. The base camp for the Nafran Valley trek is Aru , a picturesque hamlet 12 km from Pahalgam.
1. Here's a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air ticket to Srinagar. We recommend you to reach Srinagar a day before the start date of your trek.
Some stay options for stay at Srinagar: Hotel Chinar Inn , Royal Athena Houseboats and Alhamra Retreats .
Day 9: Book a return flight ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 8.
Note :
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.
On your return, your trek ends at Aru. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar. You reach Srinagar between 7.30 to 8.00 pm.
Buffer Day: Keep a buffer day for emergencies. Your trek is 7 days long, but keep an extra 8th day as your buffer day. This is outside the itinerary. On a trek, you cannot predict bad rain, landslides, or a political situation. If you don't use the buffer day on the trek, you can always use it for sightseeing in Srinagar.
Always book your return flight/train tickets after including the buffer day in your itinerary.
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to either Srinagar.
There are two options.
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar or even better if you can head towards Aru.
You can travel to Aru, if you land at Srinagar before noon .
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. Many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, you have multiple options. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
Tip: Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT than the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it " Bus Adda ". The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Pro Tip: Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket, keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Aru is about 3-4 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 5.00 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So you need to stay in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 9. The buffer day must be included in your itinerary. Day 8 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 9.
Note: The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. Reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
Book your flight out from Srinagar.
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
| Pro Tip: Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
4. Planning your hotel/stay
While booking hotels on your return, always book your rooms assuming the buffer day is not being used. Assume the trek is going to run without any hiccups. So what happens if you use your buffer day on the trek? Unfortunately, then you’ll probably lose your hotel booking. So book hotels where you may not have to transfer money in advance. Even if you do, consider it better than missing out on the trek. In Srinagar, it is difficult to find last-minute hotel bookings when you finish the trek.
Hotel options at Srinagar
Hotel Chinar Inn is close to the pickup location. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Royal Athena Houseboats is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Alhamra Retreats is a guest house with good facilities available.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
Contact Number: +91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
How to get to Aru on your own:
Step out of the Srinagar (Sheikh Ul-Alam) airport. You will first need to get to the Tourist Reception Centre (TRC), which is 12 km away from the airport. But it’s easy to get there.
The TRC lies in the heart of Srinagar. It is a prominent landmark and well connected, hard to miss as it has a football ground attached. There are two ways to get to the TRC.
1. Government Bus : This is the best way. There are airport buses every half an hour which take you to TRC. The ticket now costs approximately Rs 80. This is the most reliable, safe and pocket-friendly way, provided you have time on your side.
2. Cab : The next option is to take a private cab. You will get plenty of them immediately as you step out of the airport. But take this option only if you are pressed for time because it is expensive. The cab will cost you around Rs 600.
Note: While autos do ply in Srinagar city, you won't find them in the airport complex. You must walk a km or so from the airport to find an auto. We do not recommend it.
Direct Route from TRC to Aru
After you get to TRC, the next step is to begin your journey to Aru. The route to Aru goes via Pahalgam.
So, your journey's first, most prominent leg will be to Pahalgam.
There are two parallel routes for this. One moves on the four-lane Jammu Highway and goes through Anantnag. The second is on the other side of the Lidder river, which takes the same amount of time but is a notch more scenic due to the apple and apricot orchards on the way. This is the route through Bijbehra.
Both routes converge three kilometres before Pahalgam. The entire journey takes around 3.5 hours.
Alternative: Break it at Anantnag
Go for this option if you are travelling independently and want to opt for shared vehicles. You will find frequently shared cabs leaving for Anantnag from Dalgate taxi stand, near Jan Bakers on M A Road to Anantnag. It costs around Rs.80 for a distance of 58 km (1.5-2 hours).
Hop into another shared vehicle from Anantnag stand to Pahalgam. Expect it to cost around Rs 110 for a distance of 45 km (1 – 1.5 hours).
Note: There are chances your shared/private vehicle may not go till Aru as some of them do not have permission to cross Pahalgam. Enquire about this with the driver.
Aru is 12 km from Pahalgam. Cabs to Aru usually leave from the non-touristy side of Pahalgam. Talk to your cab driver or locals to figure this one out. The journey is barely 20 minutes long.
Cross Anantnag Checkpost before 10am &
Pahalgam Checkpost before 12pm
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Nafran Valley Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Nafran Valley Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How long is the Nafran Valley trek? expand accordion
The Nafran Valley trek is 43.5 km long and you gain 6,169 ft in total on the Nafran Valley trek. The safest way to do this trek is to cover this distance in six days as it allows enough time for your body to acclimatize to the high altitude. It’s easier and makes trekking more enjoyable.
Most walks are on green, undulating meadows. But as a chunk of this trek lies above 10,000 ft, watch out for signs of AMS if you cut the itinerary short.
Where is Nafran Valley? expand accordion
The Nafran Valley trek is situated in the Pahalgam district. It is slightly towards the west of Kashmir. The trek starts from Mondlan, a picturesque hamlet, which is 10 km from the famous touristy town of Pahalgam.
How many lakes do you see on Nafran Valley trek? expand accordion
You come across two alpine lakes on this trek. Harnag and Harbhagwan. Out of the two, Harbhagwan is the highest lake at 13,789 ft ft.
Is it safe to trek in Kashmir? expand accordion
Yes, it is safe to trek in Kashmir. Talking about Nafran Valley, while the trek remains untouched during times of unrest, getting to the base camp or onto the trail might raise concerns in times of unrest.
So, here are certain pointers to keep in mind when you are travelling from Srinagar to Pahalgam and then Aru:
If you’re staying overnight at Srinagar, stay in touristy areas like Dal Lake or Lal Chowk.
Blend in with the crowd in terms of dressing and behaviour.
Avoid going to downtown areas. Stick to tourist spaces as they tend to be safer and well-protected during times of unrest
Don’t panic if there is a curfew. Keep calm and wait for it to pass.
How difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek? expand accordion
Nafran Valley is a very high altitude trek that takes you near to 14,000 ft. The trek climbs rapidly and your safety depends a lot on the preparation you put in for the trek.
The trek is long and strenuous as well. Having prior experience trekking in the Himalayas helps in accustoming you to hardship. Having know-how about Acute Mountain Sickness greatly helps in dealing with altitude issues you may face on the trek.
How fit do I need to be for Nafran Valley? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Nafran Valley requires a really good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 32 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 25 km a week or 100 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
OR
Alternatively, cycle for at least 25 km in 60 minutes . Aim to cycle 125 km a week or 500 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How many months in advance should I book the Nafran Valley Trek? expand accordion
The Nafran Valley has a narrow window for trekking. It is possible to trek in Kashmir for only 3 months in a year. The season starts in July and goes till the middle of September.
Even though Nafran Valley has been newly discovered, trekkers eagerly wait to trek in Kashmir.
For this reason, we suggest you book the trek 5 to 6 months in advance for the desired slot.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Nafran Valley? expand accordion
You will get mobile connectivity only till Srinagar. After that, the network is sketchy and almost non-existent.
Make sure you finish all your important telephone calls before starting your travel to the base camp. Inform family members about poor connectivity during the trek.
Note : Only Postpaid- SIM cards work in Kashmir.
As for electricity, you will get electricity and charging points at your base camp in Aru.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp at Aru? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at Aru for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Moderate-Difficult treks, you’ll walk for about 8-12 km each day. Gradual to steep ascents and descents are common on all days. Expect to reach high altitudes of 15,000+ ft. There will also be technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks), which our technical teams will help you navigate.
If you are above the age of 58 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advise you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
Is offloading available on the Nafran Valley trek? expand accordion
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. However, if you have any medical issues and are not able to carry your own backpack, you can offload your backpack. The cost of offloading on the Nafran Valley Trek is Rs 4,800 for the entire trek. Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.