Pangarchulla Trek 2026 | India’s Thrilling Summit Challenge Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
PANGARCHULLA PEAK TREK
A summit challenge for adventurers
Need help with planning the trek? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors.
If you are planning a trek, our expert team of Trek Advisors can help you choose the right one. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?", please get in touch. Request A Callback
A summit challenge for adventurers
The Pangarchulla Trek is a thrilling summit climb that takes you to an impressive altitude of 15,069 ft. It is perfect for those who seek the challenge of trekking to a Himalayan peak.
In the Indian Himalayas, we hardly find trekkable peaks. Scaling most peaks requires technical mountaineering skills. Even the trekkable ones are at the two opposite ends of difficulty levels. Summits like Kedarkantha or Chandrashila climb only to around 12,000 feet, while others like Kang Yatze stand nearly 20,000 feet above sea level.
play video
This is where Pangarchulla comes in. It’s ideal for experienced trekkers ready to move beyond beginner summits. At the same time, it’s perfect for those hesitant to jump straight into tackling a 20,000-foot peak. On the summit day, you start the summit push at midnight and navigate a steep, demanding ascent across boulder-strewn slopes. But the rewards are just as grand. Situated right next to the famed Kuari Pass, the Pangarchulla summit is an even better vantage point for big mountain views. You find yourself surrounded by iconic peaks like Hathi Parbat, Gauri Parvat, Brahmal, Dronagiri, Nanda Devi, Kamet, and Chaukhamba. Then you get to see the first light of day touching these peaks. We have seen the intensity of this summit experience move trekkers to tears.
Read more
expand overview
This is where Pangarchulla comes in. It’s ideal for experienced trekkers ready to move beyond beginner summits. At the same time, it’s perfect for those hesitant to jump straight into tackling a 20,000-foot peak. On the summit day, you start the summit push at midnight and navigate a steep, demanding ascent across boulder-strewn slopes. But the rewards are just as grand. Situated right next to the famed Kuari Pass, the Pangarchulla summit is an even better vantage point for big mountain views. You find yourself surrounded by iconic peaks like Hathi Parbat, Gauri Parvat, Brahmal, Dronagiri, Nanda Devi, Kamet, and Chaukhamba. Then you get to see the first light of day touching these peaks. We have seen the intensity of this summit experience move trekkers to tears.
But the trek is not just about the summit climb. The journey from Auli itself is a feast for the senses. You trek through dense pine forests before arriving at the vast expanse of Gorson Bugyal. The walk through the Gorson meadows in the presence of Mt. Neelkanth, Mt. Nanda Devi and Mt. Dronagiri is surreal.
Then comes the Tali Lake and the Tali forest ahead of it. Camping inside Tali forest is an unforgettable experience.
Set amidst the Nanda Devi National Park, the trek has a lot of variety to offer. In March and April, the forests burst into vibrant shades of pink and red with blooming rhododendrons. The vast clearing of the Khullara campsite provides an idyllic setting to soak in the beauty of the Himalayas.
All along this journey, you see the Pangarchulla peak multiple times. It looks distant and unachievable. But with every step, you find yourself getting closer. And then, after a gruelling summit push, you suddenly find yourself standing on top of it.
Very few treks can rival the kind of summit challenge that Pangarchulla offers. Add the forests, clearings, and stunning mountain views, and you have a truly unbeatable trek.
5 Things We Love About the Pangarchulla Peak Trek
1) Our Karchi Campus
Staying at the Indiahikes Community Campus in Karchi is a standout experience for many trekkers. With Urjino Café, Crosstrek Stores, and relaxed breakout zones, it’s a refreshing change from the usual lodge stay. What truly sets it apart is the location — Mt. Dronagiri rises right in front of you. On clear days, you see the changing play of light on the peak across the day and even at night.
2) The Ledgewalk to Tali
The first day of your trek from Auli to Tali takes you across the vast Gorson Bugyal onto a narrow ledge. This ledgewalk then continues till Tali Lake. While walking along this ledge, you see prominent peaks like Neelkanth and Nanda Devi on your left. Down below, the turquoise stream of Dhauli Ganga twists and turns through a steep gorge. It is from this ledge that you see the Pangarchulla Peak for the first time. To witness something this grand on your very first day is a rare gift. It sets the tone for the rest of your trek.
3) An Adventure-Packed Summit Climb
The summit climb of Pangarchulla Peak truly defines this trek. It is long, steep, and challenging, requiring both endurance and determination. The trail takes you across vast stretches of boulders, often covered in snow, which test your balance and agility with every step. As you approach the summit, the terrain becomes even steeper, with tricky and exposed sections that add an element of thrill to the climb. Gaining nearly 4,000 feet in altitude on summit day, this adventure is perfect for those seeking the excitement of a demanding trek. Reaching the top is not just an achievement but an unforgettable experience that remains etched in your memory.
4) Spectacular Mountain Views
One of the standout features of the trek is the breathtaking mountain views. From the beginning, the mighty peaks of the Greater Himalayan Range accompany you, creating a stunning backdrop for your journey. At the summit, the views reach their peak. You are surrounded by a 360-degree panorama of some of the Himalayas’ most iconic peaks — Hathi Parbat, Mana Mandir, Nanda Devi, Kamet, Chaukhamba, Ghori Parbat, and more. These towering giants are steeped in mythology and mountaineering lore, making the experience even more meaningful.
5) The Magical Khullara Campsite
Khullara is one of the most scenic and enchanting spots in the Himalayas. Nestled in a wide clearing surrounded by dense forests, it offers spectacular views of the surrounding mountains. The forests themselves are a highlight, especially in spring when the rhododendrons are in full bloom, painting the landscape with vibrant shades of pink and red. Spending two days at this campsite, including an acclimatisation day, allows you to immerse yourself in the serene beauty fully.
The Pangarchulla Peak Trek is for those who seek challenges. Whether it's the sense of achievement at the summit or the mesmerising views and magical campsites, it is packed with every element for an unforgettable Himalayan adventure.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Pangarchulla : Take on the adventure of trekking to Dayara Bugyal, A summit challenge for adventurers, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Karchi Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Karchi on Day 1 to dinner at Karchi on Day 6 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the onward journey and ₹1500 for the return journey. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your total transport cost through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Backpack Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 2,000 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Pangarchulla Peak - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Pangarchulla Peak trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Pangarchulla Peak trek
Day 1
Drive from Rishikesh to Karchi
Drive Distance: 254 km | Drive Duration: 10-11 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Pick up Time: 5.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Karchi
Transport will be arranged at 5.30 AM. The cost of the cab will be Rs 1400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) one way. You will reach the base camp, Karchi by 5.00 PM. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Drive from Karchi to Auli. Trek from Auli to Tali
Trek Distance: 8.1 km | Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude Gain: 7,785 ft to 11,053 ft
Day 3
Trek from Tali to Khullara
Trek Distance: 2.65 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,053 ft to 11,014 ft
Day 4
Acclimatization Day at Khullara. Trek to Kuari Top and back to Khullara
Trek Distance: 7 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,010 ft to 12,600 ft, and back to 11,010 ft
Day 5
Trek from Khullara to Pangarchulla Summit, and back to Khullara
Trek Distance: 12 km | Trek Duration: 10-12 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,010 ft to 15,069 ft, and back to 11,010 ft
Day 6
Trek from Khullara to Karchi
Trek Distance: 5.25 km | Trek Duration: 3-4 hours | Altitude Loss: 11,010 ft to 7,785 ft
Day 7
Drive back from Karchi to Rishikesh
Drive Distance: 260 km | Trek Duration: 10-11 hours | Drop off point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh
The transport cost has to be borne by trekkers. It costs Rs 1500 (an additional 5% GST) per trekker to Rishikesh. (This includes the extra charges from Auli to Karchi). Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Rishikesh to Karchi
Driving Duration: 10-11 hours drive | Driving Distance: 254 km
Altitude: 7,785 ft
Highlights: The Panch Prayag that you get to see on the journey is the main highlight. Prayag is the place of a confluence of three rivers, and all the five are seen on this route, namely Dev Prayag, Rudra Prayag, Karna Prayag, Nand Prayag and Vishnu Prayag.
The Pangarchulla trek begins from Auli. However, you will be staying at Karchi.
The drive from Rishikesh to Karchi is beautiful. The road chugs along tributaries of the Ganges. It hugs the mountainside and you get views of the vast valleys and forests of Garhwal.
After you cross the village of Pipalkoti, the entire scenery changes. You suddenly see a stark difference in the landscape when approaching closer to the Greater Himalayan Range.
Read More
The Pangarchulla trek begins from Auli. However, you will be staying at Karchi.
The drive from Rishikesh to Karchi is beautiful. The road chugs along tributaries of the Ganges. It hugs the mountainside and you get views of the vast valleys and forests of Garhwal.
After you cross the village of Pipalkoti, the entire scenery changes. You suddenly see a stark difference in the landscape when approaching closer to the Greater Himalayan Range.
Watch out for the big mountain of Mt. Drongiri from the base camp. This peak will be your company for the entire trek duration.
Karchi has a few interesting things that you need to know. If you are reaching a day in advance or have time post your trek, these are the things to look out for - The Hotsprings, the first sight of Mt. Dronagiri peak welcoming you and the region of Lata, Reini where the Chipko movement started in India.
You will reach by 5.00 PM.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Drive from Karchi to Auli. Trek from Auli to Tali
Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Trek Distance: 8.1 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 2,507 ft (8,546 ft to 11,053 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate-Difficult. Continuous ascent which is steep for the first 20 minutes followed by 45 minutes of gradual ascent. Steep again for about an hour, followed by a mix of gradual and steep ascents for 1.5 - 2 hours.
Highlights: Majestic peaks such as Mt Nanda Devi, Mt Hathi, Mt Ghoda, and Mt Dronagiri stand tall around you in Auli.
The day starts with a small drive from our base camp towards Auli.
The trek starts from lower Auli. Upper Auli is 1,000 ft above this. Trekkers do have the option of taking the cable car/ropeway to reach Upper Auli. If you plan to trek, you will reach it after gradually ascending for 1-1.5 hours.
This section will be seeing plenty of waste and is a good opportunity for you to contribute to leaving the mountains better.
Read More
The day starts with a small drive from our base camp towards Auli.
The trek starts from lower Auli. Upper Auli is 1,000 ft above this. Trekkers do have the option of taking the cable car/ropeway to reach Upper Auli. If you plan to trek, you will reach it after gradually ascending for 1-1.5 hours.
This section will be seeing plenty of waste and is a good opportunity for you to contribute to leaving the mountains better.
From here, the trail enters an oak forest. Within a few minutes, you reach Padiyar temple. You can take a break here if you wish. From Padiyar temple, the trail continues to ascend. In 2.5-3 hours you will reach Padiyar.
At Gorson Bugyal, wide mountain views open up ahead of you. You will trek across the entire length of Gorson Bugyal, which gives you enough time to savour the views. This is a lovely walk one gets to do.
This is also the place you need to look up and catch Himalayan Griffin hovering above you. This majestic beauty is a wondrous bird. After about 40 minutes of moderate ascent, the overhanging trail ends abruptly and you take a U-turn brings you to an overhanging trail which cuts through a cliff.
Continue on this ledge. You can spot Lower and Upper Tugasi villages way below in the valley and also see rhododendron forests from above. The entire valley is below you now. A 20 minutes steep ascent and descent takes you to Tali lake.
At Tali lake, you’re above the tree line so you start getting the mountain views again. This with the gorgeous view of Mt. Nandi Devi that makes you go weak in your knees.
From here, your campsite is nestled in between the forest. This should take you around 30-40 minutes to reach.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Trek from Tali to Khullara
Trek Duration: 2-3 hours | Trek Distance: 2.65 km
Altitude Difference: ⇘ 40 ft (10,908 ft to 11,010 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. Gradual trek all the way to Khullara.
Highlights: Views of the major peaks of Greater Himalaya.
The trail to Khullara is an easy day. This day will help you get enough rest and spend time exploring Khullara.
You trek through the lovely dense forests of Oak and dwarf rhododendrons. There are plenty of short clearings on this day. When you are about to reach Khullara, you meet the trail which connects from Gulling.
On one side you see Chaukhamba, Neelkanth, Dronagiri, Nilgiri and Hathi Ghoda peaks. Straight ahead of you are Trishul and parts of Nanda Devi. Continue on this trail to reach the upper grasslands.
Read More
The trail to Khullara is an easy day. This day will help you get enough rest and spend time exploring Khullara.
You trek through the lovely dense forests of Oak and dwarf rhododendrons. There are plenty of short clearings on this day. When you are about to reach Khullara, you meet the trail which connects from Gulling.
On one side you see Chaukhamba, Neelkanth, Dronagiri, Nilgiri and Hathi Ghoda peaks. Straight ahead of you are Trishul and parts of Nanda Devi. Continue on this trail to reach the upper grasslands.
The Khullara campsite is located in a clearing.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Acclimatisation Day at Khullara. Trek to Kuari Top and back to Khullara
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 7km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 1,590 ft; ⇘ 1,590 ft (11,010 ft to 12,600 ft and back to 11,010 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. Gradual ascent to Kuari Pass.
Highlights: Camping on an open campsite with views of many mountain peaks. The thrill of climbing to Kuari Pass.
Take the rest day seriously and spend your time in a beautiful setting, watching the sunrise and set.
If you decide to trek up to the Kuari top, it is a moderate climb with a few switchbacks.
Read More
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Take the rest day seriously and spend your time in a beautiful setting, watching the sunrise and set.
If you decide to trek up to the Kuari top, it is a moderate climb with a few switchbacks.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from Khullara to Pangarchulla Summit, and back to Khullara
Trek Duration: 12-16 hours | Trek Distance: 12km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 4,060 ft; ⇘ 4,060 ft (11,010 ft to 15,069 ft and back to 11,010 ft)
Difficulty: Difficult. Initial gradual ascent followed by steep ascent over snow/boulders.
Highlights: Starting the climb in the wee hours and the thrill of reaching the summit when the sun is bright and shiny.
Start early at 12.00 AM.
From Khullara Campsite , walk towards the forest ridge ahead of you as you connect with the famous Lord Curzon Trail . The initial 30 to 45 minutes of the trek is through a forest ridge along a frozen rivulet. This section will be found buried in a huge accumulation of snow. The ascent of about 100 metres is stiff. Carefully climb up the snow ridge section until you see a vast snowfield in front of you. Observe the snow gully above you in the middle. That is the point where one has to reach. The incline gets steep as you walk on soft powdered snow. You finally leave the forest line behind you. Wear sunglasses to avoid snow blindness.
After walking for 30 to 45 minutes you reach the top of the snow gully. From here you get the view of Pangarchulla Main and Pangarchulla subsidiary summits.
Read More
Start early at 12.00 AM.
From Khullara Campsite , walk towards the forest ridge ahead of you as you connect with the famous Lord Curzon Trail . The initial 30 to 45 minutes of the trek is through a forest ridge along a frozen rivulet. This section will be found buried in a huge accumulation of snow. The ascent of about 100 metres is stiff. Carefully climb up the snow ridge section until you see a vast snowfield in front of you. Observe the snow gully above you in the middle. That is the point where one has to reach. The incline gets steep as you walk on soft powdered snow. You finally leave the forest line behind you. Wear sunglasses to avoid snow blindness.
After walking for 30 to 45 minutes you reach the top of the snow gully. From here you get the view of Pangarchulla Main and Pangarchulla subsidiary summits.
Stay towards the true right of the snow ridge as you walk alongside gaining altitude. The snow accumulation on the ridge from here forth can be huge during the winter season (Mid January till April). After 45 minutes of watchful snow hike along the ridge, you reach the level snow grounds. This can be a possible Advance Base Camp for Pangarchulla Summit. However, there is no source of water here in winter.
From this point observe Chaukhamba massifs in the far north, followed by Mana, Kamet, Abi Gamin, Hathi Parvat, all the way to Nanda Ghunti and Trishul. In the middle sight, the Dronagiri, Changabang and Kalanka peaks are prominent.
The onward approach to the Pangarchulla summit is laborious, but not difficult. It is advisable to have a qualified guide with you for opening the snow route. There are multiple steep sections on soft snow. Proper high ankle trek boots, gaiters and crampons will help in climbing. Crampons are highly advisable to minimize the chances of slipping on snow. The section of the climb can take five-six hours in snow conditions. In post-monsoon season one can reach the summit in 4 hours.
From this point, observe the summit approach the base of Pangarchulla main peak. Six mountain ridges need to be traversed to reach the base of the peak. During the winter season, the whole region is carpeted in snow making it difficult to traverse the area swiftly.
Take the snow trail that descends sixty meters down and then climbs up 120 meters till you reach a level hump. This section is laborious with a sharp descent and ascent. Once you reach the top of the first snow hump, it is time to climb the second one above it.
Traversing the second, third and fourth snow ridges may take an hour and a half. Once you reach the top of the fourth ridge a clear perspective of the summit climb from the base of Pangarchulla Peak can be seen. Move forward towards the fifth ridge which has a gradual ascent as you reach nearer to the base of the peak. As you cross over the fifth ridge, the sixth one appears to be a stone's throw away.
The ascent from here to the summit of the peak is around 300 to 350 meters. The climb to the summit is best approached by following the connecting ridge moving along the right side, to begin with. Halfway through the climb, look for an appropriate point from where the summit route needs to be established.
Ice carving a route via an ice axe will be required from here forth. Take a left as you face the side ridge wall with a sixty-degree incline section. Depending upon the accumulation of snow a fixed rope may be required. As you climb to the top of the razor-sharp cornice, the final summit climb section awaits you. The team should be harnessed on a rope here as the wind here is very strong. Avoid walking on the edge of the cornice at any point as you do the final ridge walk. The summit is less than 100 meters away.
Once at the summit, enjoy the breathtaking 360-degree views of Garhwal peaks. Nanda Ghunti, Trishul ranges are visible from the summit for the first time.
The return is a three-four hour descent down to the camping grounds of Khullara. Take care while descending on snow.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Trek from Khullara to Karchi
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 5.25 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 3,225 ft (11,010 ft to 7,785 ft)
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Moderate to steep descent all the way to Karchi.
Highlights: Walk through walnut trees, golden and brown oak forests all the way till Karchi.
The trail today descends from Khullara but it’s not as steep as the previous day. As you descend, you will go through dwarf rhododendrons. Within 40 minutes of starting from Khullara, you reach the first clearing. You will be surrounded by golden and brown oak forests on all sides.
Continue on the trail leading into the forest. You will reach the second clearing in about an hour. All this time, you will cross small streams along the trail. The water in them is clean and you can drink from them.
Be careful near the streams during the early season. They freeze and become hard and it becomes extremely slippery to walk on them. So, exercise caution when you come across hard ice. The snow that freezes overnight and becomes hard ice is known as Verglas.
Read More
The trail today descends from Khullara but it’s not as steep as the previous day. As you descend, you will go through dwarf rhododendrons. Within 40 minutes of starting from Khullara, you reach the first clearing. You will be surrounded by golden and brown oak forests on all sides.
Continue on the trail leading into the forest. You will reach the second clearing in about an hour. All this time, you will cross small streams along the trail. The water in them is clean and you can drink from them.
Be careful near the streams during the early season. They freeze and become hard and it becomes extremely slippery to walk on them. So, exercise caution when you come across hard ice. The snow that freezes overnight and becomes hard ice is known as Verglas.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Drive from Karchi back to Rishikesh
Duration: 10-11 hours | Drive Distance: 260 km
Highlights: The Panch Prayags that you get to see in the correct order on your way down.
Start from Tapoban after breakfast. Enjoy the scenic drive back to Rishikesh. You are expected to reach Rishikesh at around 7.00 PM on this day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
Start from Tapoban after breakfast. Enjoy the scenic drive back to Rishikesh. You are expected to reach Rishikesh at around 7.00 PM on this day.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Pangarchulla Peak Trek
What You Can Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 35 km in five trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 7,284 ft (7,785 ft to 15,069 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections. There are several difficult sections on this trek that require you to be alert and trek carefully.
The Terrain:
While approaching Tali from Gorson Bugyal, you trek on an overhanging narrow trail for about 1 km overlooking the Dhak valley. On rainy days, this stretch can get tricky.
The summit day of this trek is very challenging, both distance-wise and elevation-wise.
Once you reach the top of the snow gully, the entire route to the peak becomes visible. It becomes immediately obvious that the last 4-5 hours of the trek will be on the snow over big boulders. This is the case till you reach the summit.
Once you reach the base of the peak, you will be mainly trekking on the ridge. The ridge section can be seen as 6 small ridge sections put together– some ascending and others descending. Navigating these can be challenging, as ridges demand careful footing in both directions.
As you near the summit, the ridge becomes narrow and windy as well. This section might require a rope. Your technical guide will take a call on this and prepare the trail for you. Towards the end of April, the snow can become hard and icy. This again will require the technical guide to prepare the route for you with an ice axe. Traversing these challenges with proper safety measures will determine the success of your trek and your safety.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut in the snow. Your summit day becomes even more challenging if it snows through the day.
The trek also gets extremely cold on the summit climb as you go up the exposed ridge. This can result in cold-related injuries.
The Khullara campsite is one of the coldest campsites among all the treks that we run at Indiahikes. Appropriate layering is extremely important here.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The ascent of about 3,268 ft on the first day of the trek in an 8 km stretch. Since you gain considerable elevation on the very first day, it can make you more prone to AMS.
You climb around 4,059 ft on the summit day and reach a maximum altitude of 15,069 ft.
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
If you are in the valley where Khullara and Tali campsites are located, the closest exit is via Dhak.
If you have not crossed the overhanging section of the trail and are still on the Gorson Bugyal side, the closest exit is Auli.
Closest Hospital to the Pangarchulla Peak Trek:
The closest Primary Healthcare Center is in Joshimath, just 20 kms by road from Karchi. However, for any serious concern, heading to Dehradun is the best option. Dehradun is a 7-8 hr drive from both Karchi and Auli.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
How to Get Fit for the Pangarchulla Peak Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pangarchulla Peak Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Pangarchulla Peak Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pangarchulla Peak Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Best Time to do the Pangarchulla Peak Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Pangarchulla Peak trek is accessible for only one month of the year — that is in April . This covers the Spring Season of the year.
The trek is not open during the other months of the year. Before April, the trek has too much snow for the summit climb to be possible.
After April, the snow melts away leaving the route to the summit unsafe with exposed boulders. These boulders are big and have a lot of gaps between them, making traversing them quite challenging for any trekker. It is easily exhausting and very unsafe as well. Because of these reasons, the trek to the summit is best done before the snow melts away.
Pangarchulla Peak in Spring (April)
Day time temperature: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -5 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow starting from Auli, all the way to the summit.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
The month of April offers the right amount of snow for a successful climb to the Pangarchulla summit. Though the rest of the route is open for almost 8 months in a year, the summit climb is best done during this small window.
In April, it is proper Spring on the Pangarchulla trek. At this time, the snow is melting, giving way to lush meadows. The campsites are free of snow but there is plenty of deposited hard snow above 12,000 ft. This is the right amount of snow required for facilitating the summit climb.
Among other attractions is that April is also the season of flowers. You see meadows flowering and Rhodos blooming during this time.
In a nutshell, spring offers the best of both worlds — the perfect window for the summit climb and the time to see fresh blooms. This is the only time the trek is accessible and safe.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Pangarchulla Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Karchi is the base camp of the Pangarchulla Peak Trek. Karchi is a small hamlet in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand. One among four small villages in this area. It is around 9-10 hours by road from Rishikesh .
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5.15 am from Live Free Hostel .
Arrive in Rishikesh by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Rishikesh by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rishikesh:
How to reach Rishikesh? Rishikesh does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rishikesh is to:
Fly to Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun , which is about 1-hour away from Rishikesh
Fly to Delhi and take a train to Haridwar (30 km from Rishikesh )
Fly to Delhi and take an overnight bus to Rishikesh.
How to reach Rishikesh by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Rishikesh.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Rishikesh by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Haridwar. From Haridwar, it is just 30 km to Rishikesh.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Rishikesh by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Rishikesh on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Karchi the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Rishikesh:
You can retrace the same journey back from Rishikesh to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Karchi on your own:
There are direct buses from Dehradun or Rishikesh to Joshimath. From Joshimath, you can find shared jeeps that go to Karchi from the Tapovan Taxi Stand.
Option 1: Direct Bus from Dehradun to Joshimath and Shared Jeep to Karchi
There is one direct bus from Dehradun which leaves at 5:30 AM.
You can book seats on this bus online through the UTC Pathik App
Arrives at Joshimath at 5:30 PM on the same day.
From Joshimath to Karchi is a 17 km journey. Shared vehicles charge around Rs. 100 per person while booking a cab will cost somewhere around Rs. 700
Option 2: Direct Bus from Rishikesh to Joshimath and Shared Jeep to Karchi
There is one direct bus from Rishikesh which leaves at 5 AM.
Arrives at Joshimath at around 4 PM on the same day.
However, the availability and timing of the bus can sometimes be dependent on prior schedules, so it’s recommended to confirm the bus's arrival the previous day.
From Joshimath to Karchi is a 17 km journey. Shared vehicles charge around Rs. 100 per person while booking a cab will cost somewhere around Rs. 700
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Pangarchulla Peak Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How long is the Pangarchulla Peak Trek? expand accordion
The total distance covered during the Pangarchulla Peak trek on the Auli-Pangarchulla Peak-Karchhi trail is 37.5 km. The trek starts from Auli near Joshimath in the Garhwal region of Uttarakhand .
The trek spans over 5 days (7 days including the travel from Rishikesh and back). Except for the first two days which are short, you trek for more than 8 hours for the three days of the trek. On the summit day, you trek for about 12 hours long. As such this makes the trek a difficult one for trekkers.
What is the height of Pangarchulla Peak? expand accordion
Pangarchulla Peak trek reaches a maximum altitude/height of 15,069 ft.
From Auli, the trek climbs a height/altitude of more or less 7,500 ft during the length of this trek. You steadily climb up to 4,000 ft on the first three days of the trek. On the summit day, you climb about 4,000 ft up and down on the same day. On the last day, you climb down another 4,000 ft again. Please check the detailed itinerary to understand the trek in more detail.
How difficult is the Pangarchulla Peak Trek? expand accordion
Pangarchulla Peak trek is a difficult trek. At Indiahikes, we classify a trek as difficult if it fits the following criteria. It reaches an altitude of 15,070 ft. The summit day goes up to 12 hours of hard trek climbing up and down an altitude of 4,000 ft in a single day. The summit climb is challenging and has steep, uneven and exposed sections.
The last 4 hours of the summit climb are trekking on hard snow over boulders. It is extremely challenging, tiring and filled with tricky sections. It requires that you are sure-footed, always high on alert and carrying a lot of energy.
Apart from the first two days, the rest of the trek is marked with long days with a minimum of 8 hours trek each day.
All of this makes Pangarchulla a difficult trek to do. Without prior high altitude trek experience and excellent physical preparation, this trek is almost impossible to do.
How fit do I need to be for the Pangarchulla Peak Trek? expand accordion
Amidst the difficulty, Pangarchulla gives trekkers the feeling of adventure and accomplishment of reaching the summit that possibly no other trek gives. You need to be extremely fit to get the privilege to do this trek.
As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 30 minutes & 10 km in 62 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 30 km a week or 150 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Pangarchulla Peak Trek? expand accordion
Joshimath is the last town where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Joshimath. However, cash runs quickly at the Joshimath ATMs. Hence, Rishikesh is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp. If you are planning to extend your visit around Joshimath after the trek, we advise you to carry more.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp? expand accordion
Yes, you can keep the extra luggage at the base camp. Once the trek ends, you will be able to collect the luggage. Our team will arrange for this.
Ensure you do not keep any valuables at the base. Laptops, mobile phones, cash or any important items cannot be kept here.
How many months in advance should I book the Pangarchulla Peak trek? expand accordion
Given its difficulty, the Pangarchulla Peak trek can be done only in April. It also has an extensive selection process. It is advised to book this trek 3-4 months in advance.
How many trekkers are in a group? expand accordion
On any difficult trek like the Pangarchulla Trek, we usually take a maximum of 15 trekkers.
Is offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek. Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
However, if you have any medical issues and are not able to carry your own backpack, you can offload your backpack. The cost of offloading on the Pangarchulla Peak trek is Rs 2,000 without tax for the whole trek. Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.