Pench Tiger Trail 2026 | Madhya Pradesh’s Treasured Forest Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Pench Tiger Trail
Trek through the Jungles of Pench Tiger Reserve
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
Walking Inside a Tiger Reserve : If you’ve visited Tiger Reserves, you know how restricted these forests are. Walking and camping overnight in these forests are rare experiences, made possible through our long-standing relationship with the Madhya Pradesh Government.
Feel the Presence of Wildlife: From stories your guides tell you to the claw marks on tree trunks or fresh pugmarks on the dirt track, you feel the presence of wildlife in every step.
Camping at the Nayegaon Lake: Camp beside the vast Nayegaon Lake, right at the water’s edge. Witness a stunning sunset, with the lake glowing orange against the backdrop of dense Central Indian forests.
Spend Two Nights in this Dark Sky Park: Pench is one of only two certified dark sky parks in India. With minimal light pollution, the night sky here is exceptional during clear weather.
Trek through the jungles of Pench Tiger reserve
Pench is one of the most famous tiger reserves in our country. If you've been on safaris here, you know how restricted these forests are. Forget walking in them — you're not even allowed to get down from the safari vehicle.
Our trek in the Pench Tiger Trail changes that. It takes you on a trek through the buffer zone of this reserve, on foot, through forests teeming with wildlife. Pench is home to the Royal Bengal Tiger, leopards, the Gaur, Indian wolf, and sloth bear. You may not cross paths with a tiger, but you'll know they're around. Pugmarks on the trail, territory markings, fresh scratches on tree trunks. Signs of their presence are everywhere. That’s why the name: Pench Tiger Trail.
play video
But more than the wildlife, it's the forests that steal your heart. From teak and mango to bamboo clumps and the iconic Mahua, Palash, and Arjun, the sheer variety is mind-boggling. One of the most beautiful moments from the trek is walking through the Bawanthadi Riverbed under a canopy of these trees.
Read more
expand overview
But more than the wildlife, it's the forests that steal your heart. From teak and mango to bamboo clumps and the iconic Mahua, Palash, and Arjun, the sheer variety is mind-boggling. One of the most beautiful moments from the trek is walking through the Bawanthadi Riverbed under a canopy of these trees.
In fact, you’re sheltered by these canopies throughout your trek. Even though Madhya Pradesh is known for its heat, the canopy never lets you feel it. You're always under shade, with a breeze, on trails with such gentle inclines you can focus entirely on the forest around you, without huffing and puffing. The only little climb is on the last day of your trek, when you approach Jhandi Matta. That's when the enormity of the forest hits you. It gives you a high you never thought you could have in Central India.
These are the forests where Rudyard Kipling spent years of his life, where the characters of The Jungle Book were born. It’s a surreal experience, trekking and camping amidst them.
This kind of access doesn't happen easily. It is the result of a long relationship between Indiahikes and the Madhya Pradesh Government and the forest department. Indiahikes is the only organisation in the country permitted to run this trek.
5 Reasons Why We Love the Pench Tiger Trail
1) Feel the Presence of Wildlife: You may not always see a tiger. But in Pench, you feel the presence of wildlife at every step. You’ll pass by tree trunks sporting fresh claw marks,running deep into the bark or pugmarks pressed into the dirt track, still sharp at the edges. Pench is home to enigmatic wildlife like Royal Bengal Tiger, leopards, the Gaur, Indian wolf, and sloth bears. Even if you don’t see them, the sounds and signs of the forest will tell you they are around.
2) Sunset at Nayegaon Lake: Your camp at Nayegaon sits right at the water's edge of the Nayegaon Lake. In the evening, the lake reflects the setting sun and turns a deep orange with the dense forests of Central India closing in on the far shore. Trekkers come back raving about this magical sunset at Nayegaon.
3) The Bawanthadi Riverwalk: On the way from Nayegaon to Nalyer, the trail takes you through the Bawanthadi River. Here, you’re not trekking along the river but right through it. Tall trees line the banks of this river, their canopies meeting overhead. In fact, these canopies work magic on the Pench Tiger Trail. Madhya Pradesh is known for its heat — but walking under these forests, you'd never know it.
4) Two Nights in a Dark Sky Park: Pench is one of only two certified Dark Sky Parks in India. With minimal light pollution deep inside the reserve, the night sky here is exceptional. You spend two nights in Pench. On a clear night, give your eyes twenty minutes to adjust and look up. What opens above you is worth the two nights alone.
5) Stories of the Forest: The local guides who accompany you have myriad stories of the forest to tell. Whether you are at the campsite or on the trail, you'll keep hear them at your campsites and on the trail. Their lives depend on many of the trees and herbs of the forest. Their lives are intertwined with the wildlife. These stories will give you a very new perspective — on the realities of life in the fringes of a Tiger Reserve forest.
Frankly, there's a lot more to rave about in this region: like India's first-ever light and soundproof elevated road that runs through the heart of the forest, which we will drive on. The pretty streams and rivers through the forest. The incredible amount of birdlife and butterflies. But we’ll let you discover those for yourself when you actually do the trek.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Offloading / Cloakroom on the Pench Tiger Trail
On the Pench Tiger Trail, Offloading and Cloakroom Bags both travel in a jeep along the trek
So, whether you offload or opt for cloakroom, it amounts to the same thing on the Pench Tiger Trail
Since the luggage will travel from campsite to campsite, you'll have access to these bags at the end of each day.
However, the car with your luggage will travel in a different route and not along the trail you'll be trekking on. So you'll not have access to these belongings on the trail. Plan your day-packs accordingly.
The offloading / cloakroom charges are Rs. 300 per bag plus GST
Maximum permissible weight per bag is 9 kg
Trek Inclusions
Accommodation
You will be camping on the first and second day of the trek. You will be sleeping on forest grounds, 2 people in a tent. On the third day, you will be camping at the forest checkpost in Swiss tents, and there too, 2 people will share one tent.
Meals
Quality vegetarian meals will be provided. You can inform your experience coordinator in advance about any allergies or if you would like to request Jain food.
Camping Charges
All trek permits and camping charges are included.
Trek Equipment
High-quality tents, sleeping bags are included in your trek fee. Technical equipment ropes, etc., are also provided as and when required.
Safety Equipment
Your Trek Leader comes equipped with a Medical Kit.
Trek Exclusions
Transport to and from the base camp
Transport to Sakata 1903 Camp will be arranged from Nagpur Railway Station as well as Nagpur Airport. The arranged transport will start for Sakata (camp 1903) at exactly 11:00 am. Pre-book this pick-up online from your dashboard.
On Day-4 of your trek, Indiahikes will also arrange transport from Rukhad Gate to Nagpur and Turia Gate. However, the drop-off cannot be booked online. Costs will be shared equally among trekkers availing the drop-off and paid directly to the driver.
You can find all further details in the Quick Itinerary Section of the Trek Page.
Food during transit
Any food you have during your travel to and from the base camp is in your own expense.
Offloading and Cloakroom
On the Pench Tiger Trail, Offloading and Cloakroom Bags both travel in a jeep along the trek. So, whether you offload or opt for cloakroom, it amounts to the same thing on the Pench Tiger Trail. Since the luggage will travel from campsite to campsite, you'll have access to these bags at the end of each day. However, the car with your luggage will travel in a different route and not along the trail you'll be trekking on. So you'll not have access to these belongings on the trail. Plan your day-packs accordingly. The offloading / cloakroom charges are Rs. 300 per bag plus GST. Maximum permissible weight per bag is 9 kg
Rentals
We provide rentals for the Pench Tiger Trail. You can book your rental gear here after you have completed the registration process for the trek.
Safari
The trek does includes a 11 km safari ride in the buffer zone on the 4th day of the trek.
In addition to that, you can opt for a safari in the core zone the next day at your own expense.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
Understanding the risks of trekking expand accordion
I have voluntarily applied to participate in the trek on which I have registered. I am voluntarily participating in this adventure sport with the knowledge of the numerous risks and dangers involved, which include but are not limited to: dangers and risks inherent in adventure activities such as trekking; negligence in any manner on the part of Indiahikes; emotional trauma; disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis; death; acts of God; the hazards of travelling in remote, unsafe or politically unstable areas or under unsafe conditions; the dangers of civil disturbances and war; forces of nature; transportation failures; equipment failures; accident or illness in remote places without access to medical facilities, transportation, or means of evacuation and assistance; unexpected events; terrorist activities, social or labour unrest; mechanical or construction failures or difficulties; diseases; local laws; climatic conditions; abnormal conditions or developments; or any other actions, omissions, or conditions outside of Indiahikes’ control.
My responsibility to physically prepare myself expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Representation of Good Health expand accordion
I certify that I am in good health, have no medical, mental, or physical conditions that affect my ability to travel and/or participate in the trekking expedition and have not been advised otherwise by a medical practitioner. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is in no way responsible for any costs related to my medical care during or after the trek.
Release of Liability: As lawful consideration of, and as part of the payment for, the right to participate in the trek, and as part of the payment for the services arranged for me by Indiahikes, I HEREBY EXPRESSLY AGREE TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR MY WELFARE AND ASSUME ALL OF THE ABOVE RISKS, INCLUDING BOTH THOSE KNOWN AND UNKNOWN TO ME.
Indemnification expand accordion
I further agree to “indemnify” (meaning to defend and to pay or reimburse) Indiahikes against any claim by any person, including minors, arising in whole or in part from an injury or other loss suffered or caused by me in connection with the expedition or my participation in the trek.
To follow and abide by Indiahikes safety protocols expand accordion
1) I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
2) I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
3) I understand that this is trek with rough, rocky terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
4) I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From thre, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
5) If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
A trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
My voluntary participation and execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
Carrying and submitting required formal documents expand accordion
I am responsible to obtain information about and have in my possession all the required documentation and identification required for entry, departure and travel.
I understand that I might be asked to submit proof of identification and travel documents by officials anytime during my travel in the country or during the trek for verification. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows: The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
Indiahikes’ 3 reasons to terminate my trek: expand accordion
Smoking or drinking is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek . Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the basecamp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of AMS/HAPE/HACE.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
a. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
b. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction,
Pench Tiger Trail- Complete Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Pench Tiger Trail. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Pench Tiger Trail Map
Day 1
Drive from Nagpur to Camp 1903
Drive Distance: 142 km | Drive Duration: 3 hours | Pick-up Time: 11:00 am | Pickup point: 1. Nagpur Airport 2. Nagpur Railway Junction East Gate
Transport from Nagpur to Sakata Camp will be arranged at 11 AM. The cost is Rs. 1,250/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek. The contact number of your driver & details will be shared by your experience coordinator a day before your departure.
Day 2
Trek from Camp 1903 to Nayegaon Lake
Trek Distance: 7 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Day 3
Trek from Nayegaon Lake to Nalyer Camp
Trek Distance: 7.4 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours
Day 4
Trek from Nalyer Camp to Jhandi Matta. 11 km Tiger Safari ride to Rukhad Gate. Drive to Nagpur Airport / Railway Station
Trek Distance: 7 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Gypsy Safari: 11 km
Drive Distance to Nagpur: 130 km | Drive Duration: 2-3 hours | Drop-off Time: 8 pm
Drive Distance to Turia Gate: 32 km | Drive Duration: 1 hour | Drop-off Time: 6 pm
On the return journey from Rukhad Gate, Indiahikes will arrange transport for:
1. Nagpur Airport / Railway Station Drop
2. Pench Turia Gate Transfer
The corresponding vehicle costs are listed below.
Please Note: The type of vehicle shall depend on the number of trekkers selecting that route. The cost shall be shared equally among trekkers travelling in that particular vehicle and paid directly to the driver. You cannot book this return journey online through your dashboard.
Day 5
Post-trek recommendation: A Safari in the core zone (Not applicable in the monsoon months from July to September)
Safari Distance: 30-35 km | Safari Duration: 3-5 hours
After you end your trek on Day 4, you can extend your stay in Pench. Apart from the 11 km safari (which is a part of your trek on Day 4), you can opt to enjoy a longer jungle safari in the core zone of the Pench Tiger Reserve. You will have to pre-book the safari.
Important Note: This day is optional. Your trek fee does not cover the cost of the safari or your stay on this day. You will have to book the Day 5 core zone safari slots in advance. Go to the Madhya Pradesh forest department website to book . You will also have to book your transport back to Nagpur/your city.
Note: These safaris remain unavailable during the monsoon season (July-September). So, if you are doing the trek in the monsoon months, the optional safari suggestion is not applicable for you. In case of prolonged monsoon, safaris may remain suspended even during the first two weeks of October.
Important Advisory:
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield .
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 Drive from Nagpur to Camp 1903
Drive Duration: 3 hours | Drive Distance: 142 km | Pick-up Time: 11:00 AM
Nagpur is the nearest major city to Pench National Park, easily reachable via NH44 and SH267.
Pick-Up Details for Indiahikes Trekkers:
Pick-Up Time: 11:00 AM
Read More
Nagpur is the nearest major city to Pench National Park, easily reachable via NH44 and SH267.
Pick-Up Details for Indiahikes Trekkers:
Pick-Up Time: 11:00 AM
Pick-Up Points:
1) Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport, Nagpur
2) Nagpur Railway Station East Gate (Station Code: NGP)
Your driver’s contact number and details will be shared by your experience coordinator a day before your pick-up.
Journey Overview: As you leave the city, you'll pass through several villages on your way to Pench and cross the Kanhan River. You’ll see multiple forest gates and checkposts of the National Park. Along the way, there are many dhabas (local eateries), but it's best to have lunch in Nagpur, where you’ll find plenty of options.
Since the team departs at 11:00 AM, there won’t be any major stops aside from lunch. It’s important to reach before sunset as you’ll be driving through an eco-sensitive zone.
After about 122 km on NH44, you’ll arrive at the small village of Kurai, the main market hub in the area. You can buy anything you might have forgotten here.
Next, you’ll leave the highway and drive towards Sakata (Camp 1903) on a forest road. You are expected to reach your first campsite by 3-4 PM.
At Camp 1903: Please submit your cloakroom and offloading kit bag here. You will receive these items back on the last day of the trek at Rukhad Gate.
One exciting surprise for trekkers is an old building built in 1903. This British-era structure offers a glimpse into the lives of the British officials who used to visit this area for holidays or tiger hunting.
You can spend the rest of your day exploring the village. Roll up your pants and jump into the paddy fields to experience village life, and finish your day with a delicious dinner.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2 Trek from Camp 1903 to Nayegaon Lake
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 7 km
You start your day with a hearty breakfast, preparing for a long trek ahead.
After crossing the protective fence of the National Park, you enter the jungle. Just 400 meters in, you’ll leave the village boundary behind and arrive at Choppan Talab, a small pond. Keep an eye out, as this spot is great for birdwatching and observing wildlife. However, since it’s only the beginning of the trek, we can't linger here. More ponds and rivers await as you continue your journey.
Read More
You start your day with a hearty breakfast, preparing for a long trek ahead.
After crossing the protective fence of the National Park, you enter the jungle. Just 400 meters in, you’ll leave the village boundary behind and arrive at Choppan Talab, a small pond. Keep an eye out, as this spot is great for birdwatching and observing wildlife. However, since it’s only the beginning of the trek, we can't linger here. More ponds and rivers await as you continue your journey.
About 150 meters from Talab, you’ll encounter a fork in the trail. Take the left path.
Just 100 meters ahead, you’ll find a salt dig— a man-made pit filled with saltwater that forest officials create. Once it dries, herbivores visit this spot to lick the ground for sodium. This area is a hotspot for animal activity.
As you proceed, you’ll walk through a thick canopy of bamboo groves, followed by a sudden ascent of about 300 meters to Kutha Daan.
A quick descent from Kutha Daan leads you to Bodha Nala, a refreshing stream. Take off your shoes and cross the stream; the cool water is invigorating, but avoid drinking it without filtration, as even flowing water can harbor harmful bacteria and parasites in the jungle.
Continue along the forest trail for another 1.3 kilometers until you reach another fork. Take the right path to enter the boundary of Nayegaon, where a new beat begins, and your forest guards will change here.
After trekking 3.75 kilometers, you’ll see a mountain on your right and a small clearing, signaling your first rest point. After a quick break, resume trekking through a series of gradual ascents and descents until you reach the end of the mountain slope.
From this point, you’ll walk alongside a small stream, the soothing sound of water gurgling over stones creating a pleasant melody. About 1.5 kilometers from your first rest point, you’ll arrive at the best rest spot of the day.
The trail ahead will be flat, leading you through small patches of grassland surrounded by shrubs. You’ll cross several small water streams and come upon a check dam, which fills with water during the monsoon season.
As you continue, you’ll notice signs of civilization, revealing the harmony between villagers and Pench wildlife. The quarter-moon-shaped Nayegaon Talab is one of the largest water sources in the area.
You will camp on the banks of this lake.
Did you know Pench is one of the only two dark sky parks in the country. Meaning, you will have one of the clearest night sky visible on this trek. Indulge in stargazing experience as you retire for the night.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3 Nayegaon Lake to Nalyer Camp
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 7.4 km
Today is going to be one if not the best highlight of your trek.
You start your day early from the Nayegaon lake. You make your way through a thick patch of jungle for about 2 km. Keep your eyes peeled for signs of wildlife. As you get closer to the big river, the signs of tigers keep getting more prominent. You see tiger claw marks etched on tress. Sometimes you may find pub marks and faeces.
Read More
Today is going to be one if not the best highlight of your trek.
You start your day early from the Nayegaon lake. You make your way through a thick patch of jungle for about 2 km. Keep your eyes peeled for signs of wildlife. As you get closer to the big river, the signs of tigers keep getting more prominent. You see tiger claw marks etched on tress. Sometimes you may find pub marks and faeces.
Continue till you reach the Bawanthadi river. This is the biggest river around this parts.
Take off your shoes walk on the river inside the river for almost 4.5 km. You feel the sand under your feet, the pebbles, and the rocks. And it's all under the camouflage of trees. Imagine you along with the river meandering through this camouflage of trees. The water is absolutely crystal clear and cool. Any fatigue that you might have had instantly vanishes. Let your inner child come out and spend some time playing throughout this walk.
At the end of today's trek, you are greeted by Swiss tents made by the forest officials. The camp itself is located just besides the Bawanthadi river. You will get to interact with a lot of forest rangers here. Sometimes they narrate stories of how close the tigers have come to the camp.
On this day, you will also taste a wide variety if food prepared by locals. The food menu today will be unlike anything you may have experienced before.
Rest well inside the spacious and comfortable Swiss tents.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4 Trek from Nalyer to Jhandi Matta and Tiger Safari ride to Rukhad Gate | Drive back to Nagpur
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Gypsy Safari: 11 km
Trek Distance: 6 km | Drive Distance to Nagpur: 130 km
You will start the day at Nalyer Camp, having a packed lunch. As you exit the camp, take the first right at the diversion, and you'll find yourself on a muddy trail. Forest officials often use SUVs to access Nalyer, so keep an eye out for them.
As you continue, you’ll encounter one of the salt digs of the area. Take some time to observe the paw prints and markings left by various animals that frequent this spot. On the Indiahikes exploration, senior trek leader Nitesh Kumar even spotted fresh tiger paw marks just 30 minutes old. The forest officials accompanying you can often identify the size and type of animal based on these tracks.
Read More
You will start the day at Nalyer Camp, having a packed lunch. As you exit the camp, take the first right at the diversion, and you'll find yourself on a muddy trail. Forest officials often use SUVs to access Nalyer, so keep an eye out for them.
As you continue, you’ll encounter one of the salt digs of the area. Take some time to observe the paw prints and markings left by various animals that frequent this spot. On the Indiahikes exploration, senior trek leader Nitesh Kumar even spotted fresh tiger paw marks just 30 minutes old. The forest officials accompanying you can often identify the size and type of animal based on these tracks.
Venturing deeper into the jungle, you may notice trees with peeled bark and green paint, marked with numbers. These markings indicate a transit line, denoting distances and waypoints used by the guards on duty.
One of the highlights of the day will be the sudden clearings that emerge from the dense vegetation. These expansive grasslands are popular grazing spots for herbivores. During the monsoon, they may become a haven for barasinga, also known as swamp deer, which is the State Animal of Madhya Pradesh.
Stay mindful of the trail today, as you'll encounter many natural elements along the way. From bamboo forests to multiple streams, these features will be a refreshing delight in the humid weather.
After trekking for about 2.5 kilometers, you'll come to Satar Pen, a holy stone revered by the locals as a forest deity. From here, take a left and walk another kilometer toward Forest Munara.
After about two hours of climbing, you’ll finally reach the top of Jhandi Matta. The view from this vantage point is truly breathtaking. Until now, you’ve been trekking through dense jungle, with limited visibility. Standing at the summit, you’ll finally grasp the vastness of the landscape below.
This summit is unique; the rocky terrain allows for unobstructed views of the forest. As you gaze out, it feels like you’re adrift in a sea of green. This experience is humbling.
Take a moment to sit at the summit and soak it all in. Below you lies Pench National Park, recognized for having the highest density of herbivores. Thousands of species of plants, animals, insects, reptiles, and birds coexist harmoniously in the forest, and you are a part of this vibrant ecosystem.
Then you will descend for a kilometre to reach a transit road. Here the safari vehicle will pick you up and take you on a leisurely buffer zone safari of 11 km.
After you reach Rukhad Gate, your trek officially ends. You can go back to Nagpur or as suggested in the optional itinerary, you can opt for a core zone safari the next day.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5 Post trek recommendation: A Safari in the core zone (Not applicable in the monsoon months from July to September)
Safari Distance: 30-35 km | Safari Duration: 3-5 hrs
Note: These safaris remain unavailable during the monsoon season (July-September). So, if you are doing the trek in the monsoon months, the optional safari suggestion is not applicable for you. In case of prolonged monsoon, safaris may remain suspended even during the first two weeks of October.
Pench Tiger Reserve is famous for its wildlife safari, which takes place through different gates. The buffer zone gates are Khawasa, Khumbhpani, Masurnala, Rukhad, and Teliya. And the core zone gates are Turia, Karmajhiri, and Jhamtara.
Your trek will end at Rukhad Gate. Here, you will have an 11 km safari in buffer zone of the forest. This is a part of day 4 and a part of your trek fee.
But you can also take the opportunity to stay a day in Pench and go for a longer safari in the core zone. This is optional and is not a part of your trek fee. It is an extra cost and you will have to pay this amount to the national park authorities.
P.S. If you are opting for this, we recommend the morning hour slot.
Turia Gate is famous amongst all the core zone gates. There are many resorts and other places to stay within a 2 km radius. Irrespective of the three core zone gates, the safari tracks all meet inside. So you may select any available gate online. Note: Every resort provides a drop-off to the distance gate with charges.
Read More
Note: These safaris remain unavailable during the monsoon season (July-September). So, if you are doing the trek in the monsoon months, the optional safari suggestion is not applicable for you. In case of prolonged monsoon, safaris may remain suspended even during the first two weeks of October.
Pench Tiger Reserve is famous for its wildlife safari, which takes place through different gates. The buffer zone gates are Khawasa, Khumbhpani, Masurnala, Rukhad, and Teliya. And the core zone gates are Turia, Karmajhiri, and Jhamtara.
Your trek will end at Rukhad Gate. Here, you will have an 11 km safari in buffer zone of the forest. This is a part of day 4 and a part of your trek fee.
But you can also take the opportunity to stay a day in Pench and go for a longer safari in the core zone. This is optional and is not a part of your trek fee. It is an extra cost and you will have to pay this amount to the national park authorities.
P.S. If you are opting for this, we recommend the morning hour slot.
Turia Gate is famous amongst all the core zone gates. There are many resorts and other places to stay within a 2 km radius. Irrespective of the three core zone gates, the safari tracks all meet inside. So you may select any available gate online. Note: Every resort provides a drop-off to the distance gate with charges.
You will have to book the Day 5 core zone safari slots in advance. Go the Madhya Pradesh forest department website to book .
Pro Tip: You can choose 'full vehicle' (6-7 seater) if your fellow trek mates are also interested. Any last-minute or over-the-counter booking there is difficult as there is high demand.
If the vehicle/seats are not available online, you may try by contacting Javed Khan - 7748050767 (local agent), who arranges VIP bookings which costs 1000–1200 rupees higher per vehicle.
Note: The weekend Safari in the Tiger Reserve is very crowded. Keeping that in mind, we end your trek on a weekday. Check your trek start day carefully and book this safari on the 5th day of the trek.
go to previous day Day 4
How Difficult is the Pench Tiger Trail
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 21.4 km in three trekking days. Every day will include gradual ascents and descents.
Terrain:
The final climb to Jhandi Matta takes about 15–20 minutes of steady ascent. If the rocks are wet from rain or water, the trail becomes even more challenging.
The Pench Tiger Trail Trek includes a long walk through the Bawanthadi River. You walk barefoot, so sharp stones can be tricky. In some parts, moss makes the rocks very slippery and hard to walk on.
Cross streams wisely. Be wary of twisting your ankle on a loose rock.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Mosquitoes are a pertinent challenge in the monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. The Indiahikes team will provide mosquito nets to help you tackle this challenge.
In Monsoons, the water in the Bawanthadi river can flow too high. Your Trek Leader can decide to skip the river walk in such situations,
In Winter months, ticks are a major challenge. You need to wear full sleeved tees, and cover exposed areas (like necks) to avoid bites. Your Trek Leader and Experience Co-Ordinator will brief you on how to handle the issue.
The maximum temperature in the forest would not rise above 30° C from August till the summer. However, it will be humid during the monsoon and autumn.
Please Note:
The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
The Indiahikes team is equipped with medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any emergency.
Emergency Exits:
Pench National Park has multiple exit gates with forest guards patrolling their assigned posts all day long. So, in case of any emergencies, you just have to reach the nearest gateway to access the roadhead.
Closest Hospital to the Pench Tiger Trail
New life multi speciality hospital , Seoni (Closest), 27km from Rukhad gate
Orange City Hospital & Research Institute , Nagpur, 108km from Rukhad gate
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Pench Tiger Trail
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Pench National Park lies near the Satpura and Vidhyachal mountain ranges of Madhya Pradesh. The weather is humid during the summer.
Even though the humidity is high in the state, the region around Pench National Park has relatively pleasant weather.
The best months to trek in Pench would be August, September, October, November, December and January. The season for lush greenery, numerous streams and water bodies and the thriving wildlife.
Pench Tiger Trail in Monsoon (Aug-Oct)
Day time: Between 26 °C and 32 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 14 °C and 17 °C.
Warm layers required: One wind cheater or fleece jacket
The jungle comes alive in this season. Although some amount of humidity will be there in the air, the occasional light showers help in cooling down the temperature.
It is the season of insects, arachnids, birds, herbivores and tigers come alive. Pench National park has been recognised as the Reserve with highest density of herbivores and the second highest prey base biomass in India.
You might need a jacket in the night, but the most important advice would be to have full sleeves to protect from mosquito bites and raingear.
Pench Tiger Trail in Winter (Nov-Jan)
Day time: Between 24 °C and 28 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 10 °C to 5 °C
Warm layers required: 2 (A fleece along with a jacket)
Winter is one of the best time to visit this Tiger reserve. The air is crisp and the sun sharp. You will mandotarily need a sun cap to hike in these forests in the daytime. Regularly sipping water to hydrate yourself is very crucial too.
By the end of December, the big Bawanthadi river will have its water level reduced drastically. However, you will still be able to trek on ankle-deep cool waters with a thin canopy on top of your head.
January is the coldest month of the year around this area of the state. Sometimes temperatures may even drop to 5 °C in the night. It is recommended to carry thermals that you can use while sleeping.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
Nagpur is a major metropolitan city connected by rail and airways. To reach the start of the trek, ie., Sakata (camp 1903), you go on NH44 and cover a distance of approximately 125km in 2 and half hours
Indiahikes arranges pick-up for its trekkers from Nagpur Railway station East gate and Nagpur Airport at 11:00 AM.
1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air or train ticket to Nagpur. Arrive a day earlier or in the morning (Day 1).
If you are travelling by flight, you can fly to Nagpur from almost all the major cities like Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Delhi, etc.
If you are travelling by train, there are railway connections from major cities.
Day 1: Reach Camp 1903 and camp for the night.
Pick up for Indiahikes trekkers is at 11:00 am from Nagpur Railway Station or Nagpur Airport.
The trekkers coming by public bus from Seoni/Jabalpur or Nagpur can get down at Kurai (state transport or private buses are quite frequent between these cities). A private cab can be arranged to reach Sakata, which is 20 km away from the highway.
Day 2: Trek from Camp 1903 to Nayegaon Lake
Day 3: Trek from Nayegaon lake to Nalyer camp
Day 4 : Trek from Nalyer camp to Rukhad gate. Drive to Nagpur.
Day 5: If you opt to stay in Pench and do the core zone safari (Note: This is not a part of your trek fee.)
2. Planning your return journey
You will arrive at Nagpur at 8 pm on your 4th day. You can book train or flight late in the night.
If you are leaving on day 4, Indiahikes will arrange the vehicle to Nagpur.
However, if you are opting to go on the core jungle safari on the 5th day, your safari will end at around 11 am - 12 pm. You will have to arrange the stay for yourself.
In this case, you will reach Nagpur by 3-4 pm if you decide to have lunch and leave directly after your safari. You can get the number of transport coordinator from your trek leader. He will help you in arranging the transport back.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Pench Tiger Trail
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
If you are arriving at Nagpur a day prior or want to explore the city further after your trek, you will find numerous hotels/stay options in the city.
Hotel option near Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport-
Airport Center Point:
This is one of the best places to stay in the city. It will cost approx Rs 3,500 per night for an adult (including tax). We recommend this as it is just a 4 minute drive from the airport.
Indiahikes will arrange pick-up for its trekkers from Nagpur Airport at 11:00 AM.
Hotel options near Nagpur Junction (Railway Station)-
Exit from the East end of the railway station (back gate)
Hotel Orange Tree:
Situated 1.1 km from the Railway junction, this hotel gives you good amenities and is clean. Visitors have given good reviews on the facilities provided.
Click here to get its exact location.
Hotel Gujarat:
Situated 1.4 km from the Railway junction, this is a mid-budget stay. A clean hotel with basic amenities.
Click here to get its exact location.
Hotel options near Turia Gate (Pench)-
The Gajraj Resort:
Situated 2.5 km from the Pench National Park Turia Gate, this resort is one of the recommendations by the Forest Department. The online booking cost could be high. You can call them directly and give the reference of Indiahikes. Contact: 9111184433
Click here to get its exact location.
Please note: The whole stretch near Turia Gate has several options; you can check them on the booking platforms for cost and their reviews.
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Pench Tiger Trail
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pench Tiger Trail
toggle accordion
Most of the treks we run in the Himalayas come with a structured Fitness Approval Process. Trekkers are required to train in advance and submit screenshots of their walks and runs to receive approval.
However, our Central Indian treks are significantly easier. They do not require a formal Fitness Approval Process. You can join without submitting screenshots of your walks or runs to us.
That said, it’s always a good idea to prepare before any trek.
This is because even on Central Indian Treks, your lungs and legs work harder than in your regular everyday life. It’s better that you warm your body up to this challenge instead of coming on the trek without preparation.
How do you know if your preparation is on track?
Given below is a fitness criterion we have put together specifically for this trek. If you're able to meet it, you can be assured that you're fit enough to complete this trek comfortably.
Fitness Target
Walk, jog, or run 5 km in under 60 minutes. You don’t need to submit these screenshots to us. Our Central Indian Treks don’t have a Fitness Approval Process. However, this is a recommended fitness level you can aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you.
This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades. They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How long is the Pench Tiger Trail ? expand accordion
The trek is 4 days long, with 3 days of trekking. You will cover a total of 37 km.
Can anyone do the trek on their own? expand accordion
You can go on safaris and other wildlife sightseeing after booking tickets from official government portals. However, no one is allowed to trek inside its jungles on the itinerary mentioned on this trek page yet.
Is Pench Tiger Trail Safe? expand accordion
Trekking in a very rich biodiversity hotspot like Pench naturally comes with risks. However, two forest watchers who know their area in and out, accompany the group at all times. In its long history as a national Park and a tiger reserve, there has been no reported cases of tigers attacking humans.
One major region being that Pench tiger reserve has of the highest density of herbivores (90.3 animals per square kilometer). Tigers and other predators have plenty of food supply. They do not see humans in their food chain.
How do I get fit for the trek? expand accordion
We have specially designed a fitness schedule that can be followed irrespective of age.
By the time your trek starts, you should be able to walk/jog/run 5 km within 60 minutes comfortably. Ideally, closer to 50 minutes.
Follow the 6-week schedule in the 'How to get fit' section.
Can I take a bath on the trek? expand accordion
No, you cannot take a bath on the trek. Although you will have access to dry toilets and bathrooms on two days of the trek, we do not recommend taking a bath. Having any kind of strong smell (soaps, perfumes, etc) makes the animals aware of your presence.
Thus, herbivores will run away from you.
Will I have access to clean drinking water? expand accordion
Clean drinking water will be available at each of the campsites. We recommend carrying 2 litres of water at the start of each day.
I am Jain. Can you cook food separately for me? expand accordion
Yes, we can. Please inform your designated experience coordinator of any special requests in advance. We have the facility to provide you with special food. We also cater to any food allergies that you might have.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
At Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking. But if, due to a medical condition, you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack. On the Pench Tiger Trail, the offloading charges are Rs. 300 per bag plus GST (applicable 16th October 2025 onwards)
Can I keep my extra luggage at the basecamp? expand accordion
On the Pench Tiger Trail, Offloading and Cloakroom Bags both travel in a jeep along the trek. So, whether you offload or opt for cloakroom, it amounts to the same thing on the Pench Tiger Trail. Since the luggage will travel from campsite to campsite, you'll have access to these bags at the end of each day. However, the car with your luggage will travel in a different route and not along the trail you'll be trekking on. So you'll not have access to these belongings on the trail. Plan your day-packs accordingly. The offloading / cloakroom charges are Rs. 300 per bag plus GST (applicable 16th October 2025 onwards)
What is the recommended maximum weight of the bag we should carry? expand accordion
The maximum recommended weight of the bag will be 6 to 7 Kilos with one filled water bottle.
Are sun caps, sunscreen and trekking poles compulsory? expand accordion
Yes, items mentioned in the packing list like sun caps, sunscreen, trek poles, dry-fit pants, and long sleeved t-shirts are mandatory.
Are there mosquitoes on the trek? expand accordion
Yes, there will be a lot of mosquitoes present on the trail while you are trekking. We advice the use of odomos or other similar insect repellants.
Additionally, you can buy a net to cover your head and neck while trekking. You can take a look at this product here.
Forest watchers might even pluck a bunch of natural insect repellant plant leaves and give it to you. You can stick these shrubs in your backpack. These are common shrubs that the locals use.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.