Phulara Ridge Trek 2026 | India’s Best Ridge Walk Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Phulara Ridge Trek
India's Best Ridge Trek, Where The Mountains Walk With you
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Kotgaon: Overlooking terraced fields and traditional homes of Kotgaon, this is one of our most picturesque community campuses.
Ridge Walk Among Sweeping Mountain Views : Trek on the Phulara Ridge for an entire day amidst sweeping views of Himachal and Uttarakhand’s famous Himalayan Peaks.
Camping at Bhoj Gadi and Pushtara Meadows: These are arguably two of the prettiest campsites in the region, Bhoj Gadi with a striking sunset, and Pushtara set amidst sprawling meadows.
The Untouched Forests Beyond Pushtara: Past Pushtara Meadows, descend into a deep, untouched forest — rhododendrons, oaks and conifers leading all the way down to the quaint village of Taluka.
India's Best Ridge Trek, Where The Mountains Walk With You
Ridge treks are extremely uncommon in India. Most Himalayan treks lead you to summits where you savour mountain views for just a few moments before descending. But on ridges, where two sides of a mountain meet, you get to spend more time surrounded by panoramic views. The experience is thrilling too, almost like walking along a knife-edge, where there are just flanks of the mountain sloping down from either side of you.
However, ridgewalks are only known to be small sections in a few Himalayan treks. At Indiahikes, we wanted something more elaborate. That is when we struck gold with the Phulara Ridge Exploration in 2018.
play video
It turned out to be an unmatched adventure. We shaped up the trek to allow one whole day of ridge walking, and hence also gave it the name Phulara Ridge. On this day-long ridge walk, you enjoy hours of uninterrupted vistas, with a 250-degree sweep of majestic peaks. This experience is unparalleled. It almost feels as if the mountains are walking with you as companions on your journey.
Read more
expand overview
It turned out to be an unmatched adventure. We shaped up the trek to allow one whole day of ridge walking, and hence also gave it the name Phulara Ridge. On this day-long ridge walk, you enjoy hours of uninterrupted vistas, with a 250-degree sweep of majestic peaks. This experience is unparalleled. It almost feels as if the mountains are walking with you as companions on your journey.
Yet, the Phulara Ridge Trek is far more than just a ridge walk. The trek was named after the abundant wildflowers that our exploration team observed along the way. From the virgin forest section between Pushtara and Taluka to the magical Bhoj Gadi and Pushtara meadows, there is no shortage of variety. Add to this the rich cultural heritage of Kotgaon, the base village, and you get the Phulara Ridge Trek.
Phulara Ridge is undoubtedly India’s best ridge trek. Yet it is packed with an unending variety of other magnificent landscapes. Whether you are a beginner or an experienced trekker, Phulara Ridge will leave you mesmerised and yearning to return.
What Makes This Trek Special
The Unparalleled Ridge Walk
Phulara Ridge is unlike any other trek in India. While many treks have short ridge sections, this trek offers a ridge walk that spans hours. It connects mountain tops in a seamless, undulating path. With snow-capped peaks accompanying you on one side and sweeping meadows and valleys on the other, the experience is truly unique.
As you walk, the ground gently slopes away into a kaleidoscope of tiny flowers and dwarf rhododendrons. Every step feels like walking on a knife-edge surrounded by nature’s artistry. This ridge walk is what sets Phulara Ridge apart from any other trek in the Himalayas.
The Enchanting Meadows
The trek introduces you to two breathtaking meadows: Bhoj Gadi and Pushtara.
Bhoj Gadi: You camp at Bhoj Gadi on Day 4 of your trek. This serene meadow serves as the perfect campsite, offering incredible sunset views. When the sun dips behind the Kedarkantha summit, it bathes the valley in golden hues, creating an awe-inspiring spectacle.
Pushtara: The trek leads you to the sprawling Pushtara meadows on the final day. It stretches out
like a green carpet, dotted with wildflowers that change with the seasons. Whether it’s the lush greenery of summer or the golden tones of autumn, Pushtara leaves an everlasting impression.
Secluded Trails Through Untouched Forests
The trek takes you through pristine forests that feel almost untouched by human presence. The last day’s descent is especially magical, with trails that are rarely trodden. The sounds of chirping birds and rustling leaves remain constant companions. If you’re lucky, you might even spot the elusive Monal, the state bird of Uttarakhand.
The Local Villages and Rich Culture
The trek begins at Kotgaon, a charming village nestled amidst the mountains of Uttarkashi. Its unique blend of Garhwali and Himachali cultures adds depth to the trekking experience. Spend time exploring the village– its old houses and temples– with the majestic Swargarohini peaks serving as backdrop.
The Phulara Ridge Trek is an incredible all-encompassing experience. Whether it’s the thrill of the ridge walk, the serenity of the meadows, or the vibrant birdlife in the forests, every moment on this trek is a story waiting to be cherished.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Phulara Ridge : Take on the adventure of trekking to Phulara Ridge, India's best ridge trek, where the mountains walk with you, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Kotgaon Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Kotgaon on Day 1 to dinner at Kotgaon on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹2600 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Rental Gears
You don't need to break the bank in order to get high-quality trekking gear. You spend 1/10th of the buying cost by renting. We have a range of products available on our rental store. See here
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Phulara Ridge - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Phulara Ridge trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find these extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A map of the Phulara Ridge trek.
Day 1
Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon (6,455 ft)
Drive distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Pick up Time: 6.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Kotgaon
We will arrange shared cabs for trekkers to pick you up from Dehradun and drop back after the trek.
The transport cost is shared between the trekkers. The cost of the cab will be Rs 1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . The return journey will cost you the same. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Kotgaon to Akondi
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 6,455 ft to 9,400 ft
Day 3
Trek from Akondi to Bhoj Gadi
Trek Distance: 4.45 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 8,925 ft to 11,170 ft
Day 4
Trek from Bhoj Gadi to Pushtara via Phulara ridge
Trek Distance: 8.4 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 11,170 ft to 9,860 ft via 12,345 ft
Day 5
Trek from Pushtara to Taluka. Drive to Kotgaon
Trek Distance: 8.1 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Drive Duration: 1.5-2 hours | Altitude loss: 9,860 ft to 6,916 ft
Day 6
Drive from Kotgaon to Dehradun
Drive Distance: 195 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Drop off point: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Drop off time: 6 pm
This transport cost again has to be borne by trekkers. This costs Rs.1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 1 (Pick-up): Drive from Dehradun to Kotgaon
Drive Duration: 9-10 hours drive | Drive Distance: 195 km
Altitude: 6,455 ft
Kotgaon, the base camp for this trek, is a small but pretty village with 250 houses. A few dhabas and shops make up the commerce scene in Kotgaon.
The drive takes you on narrow mountain roads along the River Yamuna. Within an hour of driving, you reach Mussoorie. Further ahead, the journey takes you past beautiful valleys and forest cover throughout the journey. The 18 km stretch of the dense pine forest after Purola and the drive through the Mori valley alongside River Tons will stay with you for a long time. Do not miss to watch out for them.
In peak season, it is usually bustling with trekking activity as it is the base camp for many treks – Kedarkantha , Har Ki Dun , Bali Pass , and Borasu Pass . The village offers a beautiful view of the sun setting behind the greater Himalayas. The peaks of Swargarohini shimmer in the evening sun, standing tall over the ridges beyond Kotgaon.
Read More
Kotgaon, the base camp for this trek, is a small but pretty village with 250 houses. A few dhabas and shops make up the commerce scene in Kotgaon.
The drive takes you on narrow mountain roads along the River Yamuna. Within an hour of driving, you reach Mussoorie. Further ahead, the journey takes you past beautiful valleys and forest cover throughout the journey. The 18 km stretch of the dense pine forest after Purola and the drive through the Mori valley alongside River Tons will stay with you for a long time. Do not miss to watch out for them.
In peak season, it is usually bustling with trekking activity as it is the base camp for many treks – Kedarkantha , Har Ki Dun , Bali Pass , and Borasu Pass . The village offers a beautiful view of the sun setting behind the greater Himalayas. The peaks of Swargarohini shimmer in the evening sun, standing tall over the ridges beyond Kotgaon.
The drive to Kotgaon will take you through Nainbagh, Naugaon, Purola, Jarmola and Mori Naitwar (a left turn from Naitwar will lead you to Dhaula, which is the base camp for Rupin Pass and Bharadsar lake trek), and finally Kotgaon.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Kotgaon to Akondi
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 5 kms
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 2,470 ft (6,455 ft to 9,400 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. Trail ascending through the forest section
Highlights: The well laid out trail through the pine forest is a wonderful start for your trek. Listen out to the sounds of the bird as you trek through this section while you cross bridges and some lovely clearings.
The trek starts from Kotgaon village. Initially, you pass through the village. As you come out of the village, you cross a bridge and enter a lovely pine forest. After about an hour of ascent, you come across a beautiful clearing called Shirpuri.
From Shirpuri, there are two trails. One to the right goes towards Kedarkantha Peak and the one to the left goes towards Hargaon. Take the left trail. A bit of a relaxed trail in the pine forest further leads to Hargaon - another clearing where you can spot shepherds' huts.
If you follow the trail straight ahead of Hargaon, it’s the one to the famous Juda Ka Talab. You can either follow this to Juda Ka Talab and then take a left from the lake or the better exciting trail which is to explore the trail to the left from this fork. This takes you through the lovely pine forests. The aroma of the Himalayan Cedar or Deodhar Cedar has filled the area as your legs enjoy a soft crunch through the forest floor. You will hear the tiny bees buzzing, resonating all around the forest. A nice half an hour on the forest path, you reach the main trail. This is the trail that comes from Juda Ka Talab. Take the left here and follow the trail in the forest.
Read More
The trek starts from Kotgaon village. Initially, you pass through the village. As you come out of the village, you cross a bridge and enter a lovely pine forest. After about an hour of ascent, you come across a beautiful clearing called Shirpuri.
From Shirpuri, there are two trails. One to the right goes towards Kedarkantha Peak and the one to the left goes towards Hargaon. Take the left trail. A bit of a relaxed trail in the pine forest further leads to Hargaon - another clearing where you can spot shepherds' huts.
If you follow the trail straight ahead of Hargaon, it’s the one to the famous Juda Ka Talab. You can either follow this to Juda Ka Talab and then take a left from the lake or the better exciting trail which is to explore the trail to the left from this fork. This takes you through the lovely pine forests. The aroma of the Himalayan Cedar or Deodhar Cedar has filled the area as your legs enjoy a soft crunch through the forest floor. You will hear the tiny bees buzzing, resonating all around the forest. A nice half an hour on the forest path, you reach the main trail. This is the trail that comes from Juda Ka Talab. Take the left here and follow the trail in the forest.
There is another good clearing to the left where you can pitch your tents.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Akondi to Bhoj Gadi
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Distance: 4.45 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 2,245 (8,925 ft ft to 11,170 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. Gradual climb as you cross the tree line and enter into the higher altitude meadows.
Highlights: Trek through the aromatic Deodhar trees and secluded trail. You will see a mix of pine, oak and dwarf rhododendrons. Turn back to see the famous Kedarkantha Peak. Do not miss the beautiful alpenglow and night sky from Bhoj Gadi.
You will be surprised to see a ledge to your right. The sunlight cuts across the canopy beautifully here. You start seeing snow-capped peaks being visible now to the left. You will pass a small broken bridge. A stream is flowing down the hill where you can fill your water bottles.
The ascent continues from here for another 40 minutes. The Trail has Yellow Marsh Marigold and purple lilies blooming around. You come across a lovely large rock – The Gecko rock. It resembles the shape of a lizard having its head held high. The trail takes the right which leads to the clearing of ‘Sikolta’. A nice meadow patch with broken Gujjar huts.
A good ascent from Sikolta for about 30 minutes through the forest patch. The forest is a bit dark and dense. Watch out for a few trees fallen on the trail. You spot a bridge down along the trail. A small descent to the bridge and a sharp ascend through a small section of the landslide terrain. This section is just about 100 meters. A nice stream is flowing underneath the bridge where you can fill water. The bridge and the stream separate the valley. Continue the ascend for another 15 minutes to reach a bigger clearing known as ‘Karsu Thatch’. The grass is filled with yellow flowers.
Read More
You will be surprised to see a ledge to your right. The sunlight cuts across the canopy beautifully here. You start seeing snow-capped peaks being visible now to the left. You will pass a small broken bridge. A stream is flowing down the hill where you can fill your water bottles.
The ascent continues from here for another 40 minutes. The Trail has Yellow Marsh Marigold and purple lilies blooming around. You come across a lovely large rock – The Gecko rock. It resembles the shape of a lizard having its head held high. The trail takes the right which leads to the clearing of ‘Sikolta’. A nice meadow patch with broken Gujjar huts.
A good ascent from Sikolta for about 30 minutes through the forest patch. The forest is a bit dark and dense. Watch out for a few trees fallen on the trail. You spot a bridge down along the trail. A small descent to the bridge and a sharp ascend through a small section of the landslide terrain. This section is just about 100 meters. A nice stream is flowing underneath the bridge where you can fill water. The bridge and the stream separate the valley. Continue the ascend for another 15 minutes to reach a bigger clearing known as ‘Karsu Thatch’. The grass is filled with yellow flowers.
As you enter this big clearing, to the right you see the Kedarkantha peak. You see the decline in the tree line from here. You need to take the gradual ascent and keep it to your left. The ascent is a gradual one for another 30 minutes. The rhodo type trees with some Bhoj trees are filled on the trail now. The flowers bloom after the monsoon. The clearings start to open up and you enter the lush green meadows. A treat for your eyes and legs, one can enjoy walking on the green cover now.
The Dhunda Top is the highest point of this hill. With a small gradual ascent of 15 minutes and a trek for another 10 minutes on the trail to the left, you enter a nice flat meadow patch. This will be your campsite. You have a stream flowing down the valley. This will be your water source.
You can go for an excursion/acclimatization walk to the top of the hill. It’s a long ridge at the top which can take you to Kedarkantha as well. From here you will see the Purola region, the peaks of Kedarkantha, Swargarohini, Devkyara, Lekha Top, Vijay Top and a few others. The sunset, rising of the moon and early sunrise is a beautiful spectacles to watch out for from this campsite.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Bhoj Gadi to Pushtara via Phulara ridge
Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Trek Distance: 8.5 km
Altitude gain/loss: ⇗ 1,175 ft ⇘ 2,485 ft (11,170 ft to 9,860 ft via 12,345 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. Ascend the trail up to the ridge. A flat trail at the ridge followed by a descent to Pushtara.
Highlights: Trekking on the ridge at around 12,000 feet with mountain views is a unique feeling. As you enter Phustara, take off your shoes and walk on the carpet of grass. Watch your step on the ridge if you have snow or the formation of Verglass.
The top of the ridge can be seen from the campsite. To start the day, there is a nice ascent. It takes about 45 minutes to reach the top of the ridge. A lot of Himalayan Monals can be spotted on this trail. I saw seven Monals on this day and when approaching the ridge.
The view from the ridge is amazing. The view of the snow-peaked mountains of 250 degrees. You can see the ridge going ahead with slight ascents to reach the end of this beautiful trail. As you are trekking, you feel the snow-capped mountains moving along with you.
After another hour of trekking, you come to the end of this trail where it takes a right turn. Few stones kept along the pathway, make you feel like you got a grand entrance to view the majestic view. The peaks from right to left are Hanuman Top, Sarutal Top, DKD, Bandarpoonch, Kalanag, Swargarohini, Hata Peak(HKD), Ranglana, Devkyara valley, Lekha Top, Vijay Top, Kedarkantha. Take the right from this point where the trail leads. An intermittent signal of Vodafone can be caught at the top. You can see multiple descents and ascents one has to take. The base of Sarutal is where you need to cross.
Read More
The top of the ridge can be seen from the campsite. To start the day, there is a nice ascent. It takes about 45 minutes to reach the top of the ridge. A lot of Himalayan Monals can be spotted on this trail. I saw seven Monals on this day and when approaching the ridge.
The view from the ridge is amazing. The view of the snow-peaked mountains of 250 degrees. You can see the ridge going ahead with slight ascents to reach the end of this beautiful trail. As you are trekking, you feel the snow-capped mountains moving along with you.
After another hour of trekking, you come to the end of this trail where it takes a right turn. Few stones kept along the pathway, make you feel like you got a grand entrance to view the majestic view. The peaks from right to left are Hanuman Top, Sarutal Top, DKD, Bandarpoonch, Kalanag, Swargarohini, Hata Peak(HKD), Ranglana, Devkyara valley, Lekha Top, Vijay Top, Kedarkantha. Take the right from this point where the trail leads. An intermittent signal of Vodafone can be caught at the top. You can see multiple descents and ascents one has to take. The base of Sarutal is where you need to cross.
The trail takes a bit of descent and follows a gradual ascent. To the right is a drop. In the distance across the tall pine trees, in the valley of Purola. This section is not possible to take during the winter months because of snow. This section also does not have water sources. Crossing the snow section during April, and May itself is a difficult, tricky section. It took about an hour and 50 minutes with snow. Without snow, it would take about 30 minutes to complete and cross the Sarutal section. Watch for wildflowers and Monals through this section.
Once you cross this valley, you enter the right side of the hill. Few big mountains right in front of you. Take the descent and keep to your right. You will be blown away by the vastness of Pushtara meadows. It’s on the edge and a beautiful place to set up your campsite.
If you cross this valley, you have Taloti. A medium-sized gorgeous lake formed by the melting glaciers. Pushtara has a good amount of water on the right side. A small graveyard by the Gujjars can be seen giving a nice chill to the bones. A good place to come up with stories for the night.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Trek from Pushtara to Taluka. Drive to Kotgaon
Trek Duration: 5 hours trek | Trek Distance: 8.1 km
Drive Distance: 1.5 hours drive from Taluka to Kotgaon
Altitude loss: ⇘ 2,764 ft (9,860 ft to 6,916 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. Descend through the forest trail all the way to Taluka.
Highlights: The last day of the trek is through complete isolation in the thick forests. Listen to the sounds of the bird and keep your eyes open. This day is the best one to spot a Monal. Enjoy the forest section and do not get lost while you reach the signs of the civilization of Tumrikot.
The trail would be a complete descent to the village of Taluka. The first 30 minutes is the descent through the meadows. You see some broken Gujjar huts here. You see the trail coming from the Taloti valley to the right. Take the descent and join this trail. Keep descending and going towards the right. The tree line starts to increase. The floor is laden with beautiful yellow flowers. It feels like a bed to just lie down.
On descent for another 30 minutes, you enter the forest. Wide good trails enter the forest at first. The forest is a big one and is easy to get lost if you go off-trail. Initially, trees are spaced with a good amount of light coming through the cover. Later big pine trees dawn over you. You seem like tiny individual trekking in the big forest. You need to cross some trees which have fallen on the ground. A troop of curious langurs stares at your trekking technique while they jump effortlessly from one tree to another.
Keep an eye to the right, you see a small village. You won’t be going to this village but reassures you of following the trail. The descent goes for about an hour and 30 mins through this forest. In the last stretch of thick untouched forest and you hear a few bells. You spot a herd of cows, goats grazing and also a few logging activities indicating that you are close to civilization. Follow the same trail and you see a pathway and a collecting pipe from the stream. There is a big water tank and you see wooden huts with stoned roofing. This is the village of Tumrikot. A beautiful village walks for 30 mins and you reach the end of your trek. The small village of Taluka has a couple of shops. You can see a clear marking for the Har Ki Dun trek.
Read More
The trail would be a complete descent to the village of Taluka. The first 30 minutes is the descent through the meadows. You see some broken Gujjar huts here. You see the trail coming from the Taloti valley to the right. Take the descent and join this trail. Keep descending and going towards the right. The tree line starts to increase. The floor is laden with beautiful yellow flowers. It feels like a bed to just lie down.
On descent for another 30 minutes, you enter the forest. Wide good trails enter the forest at first. The forest is a big one and is easy to get lost if you go off-trail. Initially, trees are spaced with a good amount of light coming through the cover. Later big pine trees dawn over you. You seem like tiny individual trekking in the big forest. You need to cross some trees which have fallen on the ground. A troop of curious langurs stares at your trekking technique while they jump effortlessly from one tree to another.
Keep an eye to the right, you see a small village. You won’t be going to this village but reassures you of following the trail. The descent goes for about an hour and 30 mins through this forest. In the last stretch of thick untouched forest and you hear a few bells. You spot a herd of cows, goats grazing and also a few logging activities indicating that you are close to civilization. Follow the same trail and you see a pathway and a collecting pipe from the stream. There is a big water tank and you see wooden huts with stoned roofing. This is the village of Tumrikot. A beautiful village walks for 30 mins and you reach the end of your trek. The small village of Taluka has a couple of shops. You can see a clear marking for the Har Ki Dun trek.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Drive from Kotgaon to Dehradun
Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Drive Distance: 195 km
Start early in the morning, preferably before 7:00 AM since the journey takes at least 9-10 hours.
If you have time to spare at Dehradun, go to Mussoorie or explore around Dehradun.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Start early in the morning, preferably before 7:00 AM since the journey takes at least 9-10 hours.
If you have time to spare at Dehradun, go to Mussoorie or explore around Dehradun.
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult Is the Phulara Ridge Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 26 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,945 ft (6,400 ft to 12,345 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. There are certain steep sections spread out, but when well-prepared, they are easy to tackle.
The Terrain:
On the first day of the Phulara Ridge Trek, you gain almost 3000 ft in elevation over a 4-5 km trek. The trail climbs steeply through forest sections and can be tiring.
The initial part of the day from Bhoj Gadi to climbing onto the Phulara Ridge is a steep ascent. It can take you close to 1 hr to just get on the ridge. In the early weeks of May or June, if there is snow, this climb becomes even more tricky.
Once you are on the ridge, the ups and downs are gradual. However, the ridge is exposed and windy. Layering up well is key to handling the wind chill.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can significantly alter the dynamics of a trek. Rain can turn the forest trails slushy. This makes the strenuous ascent on the first day of your trek trickier.
Snowfall can block previously established paths, requiring new tracks to be carved through the snow. This can add to the challenge, especially during the climb to the ridge from Bhoj Gadi Campsite. If there is too much snow, the descent from the ridge on the Pushtara side can also get tricky.
Kotgaon is one of our coldest base villages. Its unique location keeps Kotgaon in shade for a very long time even after sunrise, as a hill blocks the first light of the day.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
You gain almost 3000 ft in elevation over just 4-5 km of trekking on the very first day of your trek. The elevation gain coupled with exertion makes you susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness .
On the other days of the trek, elevation gain is quite gradual and the itinerary of the Phulara Ridge trek allows you to acclimatise well.
But, the Phulara Ridge Trek takes you to an altitude of 12,345 ft and at altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
There are two exit points on the Phulara Ridge trek – Kotgaon if you haven’t crossed the ridge, and Taluka, if you have crossed the ridge. It takes around 5 hours to descend to Kotgaon from the highest campsite of the trek.
Closest Hospital to the Phulara Ridge Trek:
For mild medical issues, the closest medical assistance can be found in Mori and then in Purola. This includes simple fractures, sprains, etc. However, for major medical emergencies, the nearest hospital is in Mussoorie or Dehradun – which is almost 8-9 hours away from the base camp of the trek.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Phulara Ridge Trek
Time your Trek well
toggle accordion
There are two great seasons to do the Phulara Ridge trek — Summer and Autumn . Both these two seasons have their own beauty and charm involved.
Phulara Ridge in Summer
Day time: Between 12 °C and 17 °C | Night time: Night time temperature: Will drop to zero
Presence of snow: If the winter season for the year has heavy snowfall, you can expect snow patches on the ridge for the first few weeks of May. The snow starts to recede with the meadows and flowers popping out.
No. of warm layers required: 3 layers
The best time to do the Phulara Ridge trek would be in the summer– May and June . The snow-capped mountain ranges that dominate the landscape only add to the awe-inspiring scenery while trekking.
What's more, the trek during this season offers the opportunity to witness the rare alpenglow phenomenon, blooming rhododendrons, and the vibrant meadows of Pushtara, making it one of the best times to explore the trail.
During May, the forests and meadows are a sight to behold, adorned with bright and beautiful flora. As you enter June, the landscape turns even more lush with a carpet of flowers in full bloom.
Phulara Ridge in Autumn
Day time: Between 10 °C and 14 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -3 °C.
Presence of snow: You can expect the last groups of November to witness the first spell of snowfall due to the western disturbances.
No. of warm layers required: 4 layers
Another good time to do the Phulara Ridge trek is in the post-monsoon and Autumn season — September to November . The trail is lush green in September, fresh from the monsoon outpour.
As you move towards autumn, the region changes hues to dramatic yellows and oranges. The colors on the trek come out alive through each and every section on the trek.
One of the most remarkable features of this season is the clear and crisp skies, offering trekkers the best possible views of the mountains. This is also the perfect time for stargazing, making it a delightful experience for nature lovers.
The Phulara Ridge crossing is very much dependent on how much snow and the weather is for the day of the ridge crossing. In case of bad weather or the ridge not being safe to cross, the trek leader can take a call on returning from Bhoj Gadi.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Phulara Ridge Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Kotgaon is the base camp of the Phulara Ridge Trek. Kotgaon is a picturesque village situated in the Mori Tehsil of the Uttarkashi district in Uttarakhand, India. Nestled in the upper Tons Valley, it offers stunning views of the surrounding Himalayan peaks, including the Swargarohini range. It is around 200 km from Dehradun and takes around 10 hours to reach by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 6.30 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
How to reach Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities.
The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, if you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000, then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much-needed rest before you start the long drive to Kotgaon the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Kotgaon on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Kotgaon. You first need to reach Mori or Sankri and then take a shared jeep to Kotgaon.
Option 1: Dehradun to Sankri and Onwards to Kotgaon
There are three direct bus services from Dehradun to Sankri
The Private Buses depart at 5 AM and 6 AM while the Government Bus leaves Dehradun at 8 AM
Please note that all of them start from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 8-9 hrs to reach Sankri from Dehradun
From Sankri, it is just 5 km to Kotgaon. Even if you don’t get shared jeeps, you can hire private taxis to reach Kotgaon, without burning a hole in your pocket.
Option 2: Dehradun to Mori and Onwards to Kotgaon
There is one direct bus service from Dehradun to Mori
The Bus starts at 9 AM from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It takes around 6-7 hrs to reach Mori from Dehradun
From Mori, you get shared vehicles to Kotgaon. You can also hire a private taxi.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Phulara Ridge Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Phulara Ridge Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Phulara Ridge Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Phulara Ridge Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Is the Phulara Ridge a good first Himalayan trek? expand accordion
The Phulara Ridge is 4 days long with gradual ascents and each day, you’ll be trekking for an average of 5 hours each on the first two days and longer over the next two days. This means the trek is ideal for a fit beginner.
Having said that, it is still a trek in the Himalayas with difficulties in terrain, temperatures, and weather. Therefore, you must train for at least a month before going on the Phulara Ridge trek.
How fit do I need to be for the Phulara Ridge trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Phulara Ridge requires a good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us. Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 35 minutes.
What are washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
The guest houses at Kotgaon will have concrete toilets. On the other days, toilet tents will be set up along each campsite. A toilet tent will have a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. There will be a room freshener as well. It’s the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild.
Please use plain toilet paper and refrain from using wet wipes since these are not bio-degradable.
What Happens To Your Poop in the Mountains? | Green Trails | Indiahikes
How many trekkers are in a single group? expand accordion
On the Phulara Ridge trek, we usually take around 20- 23 trekkers in total.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Phulara Ridge Trek? expand accordion
Uttarkashi is the last town en route to Kotgaon where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Uttarkashi. However, cash does run out quickly at the Uttarkashi ATMs. Hence, Dehradun is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
Can I take my child along on this trek? What is the age limit? expand accordion
Phulara ridge trek is suitable for anyone above the age of 9 years. However, you need to ensure that your child is physically fit for the trek.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Phulara Ridge Trek? expand accordion
You will get a Jio network at the base camp but scattered internet connectivity. However, you won’t find any network on the Phulara Ridge Trek.
As per electricity, there are charging points on the basecamp but none on the trek.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp of Kotgaon? expand accordion
Yes, you can keep the extra luggage at the base camp. Once the trek ends, you will be able to collect the luggage. Our team will arrange for this.
Ensure you do not keep any valuables at the base. Laptops, mobile phones, cash or any important items cannot be kept here.
Is offloading available on the Phulara Ridge Trek expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Phulara Ridge trek is Rs 1,600 without tax for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.