Pin Bhaba Pass Trek 2026 | India’s Most Dramatic Pass-Crossing Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Pin Bhaba Pass
The Most Dramatic Crossover Trek in India
Groups for our Pin Bhaba Pass Trek are filling fast
With Kashmir Treks uncertain, Pin Bhaba Pass Trek is seeing strong interest. If you're wondering whether this is the right trek for you, talk to our expert Trek Advisors. Click Here to Request A Callback
Highlights
Forests on the Way to Mulling: Trek under canopies of huge oaks and pines with a turquoise river flowing deep down the valley. Climb up a narrow ledge to the huge open grasslands of Mulling.
Kashmir-like Meadows at Karah: Wide, grassy, ringed by peaks. Karah's meadows have the quality of Kashmir — and are arguably the finest campsite setting on this trek.
Camping on a River Delta at Phutsirang: River deltas are rare on any Himalayan trek. At Phutsirang, you camp on one. Braided channels, flat ground, mountains closing in on all sides.
Contrast on Two Sides of the Pass: Pin Bhaba Pass is a dramatic crossover from the lush valleys of Bhaba to the Stark, pink cold-desert landscape of Lahaul.
New Trek Every Single Day : Enchanting forests, Kashmir-like meadows, a dramatic pass crossing, a river delta, and finishing in the quaint village of Mudh. It’s like doing a new trek every single day.
The Most Dramatic Crossover Trek in India
Pin Bhaba Pass is hands down the most dramatic pass crossing trek in our country. That is a bold statement to make. Especially when we have so many great crossover treks in our country — Rupin Pass, taking you into Kinnaur through waterfalls and snowfields; Bali Pass, connecting Yamunotri to the Har ki Dun valley; Hampta Pass, connecting Kullu Valley to Lahaul. Each of them is remarkable in its own way.
But none of these come close to the dramatic change in scenery you see at the Pin Bhaba Pass. Standing at the pass, at 16,105 ft, the contrast you see is unreasonable: behind you are the saturated greens of the Bhaba valley, where you spent the past five days. Ahead of you are striking pinks, purples and oranges of Spiti. Sometimes, even the skies don't match on the two sides. You’ll see clouds hovering over the Bhaba valley and crystal clear blues on the Pin side. After a gruelling climb to this 16,000 ft Himalayan pass, witnessing this stark contrast on the two sides is unbelievable.
play video
And it's not just on the passing day that you witness this drama. It starts right from day one in the forests of Mulling. A turquoise river gushes through the forest on one side, little brooks cutting through the trees on the other. Towards noon, you burst out of the forest into the grasslands of Mulling. Then come the Kashmir-like meadows of Karah. And the day after, you camp on the outwash plains delta of Phutsirang. Just trekking to a high-altitude river delta like Phutsirang is rare. Imagine camping there before your grand pass-crossing day.
Read more
expand overview
And it's not just on the passing day that you witness this drama. It starts right from day one in the forests of Mulling. A turquoise river gushes through the forest on one side, little brooks cutting through the trees on the other. Towards noon, you burst out of the forest into the grasslands of Mulling. Then come the Kashmir-like meadows of Karah. And the day after, you camp on the outwash plains delta of Phutsirang. Just trekking to a high-altitude river delta like Phutsirang is rare. Imagine camping there before your grand pass-crossing day.
From Phutsirang, you see the pass climb right ahead. You leave behind the greens of Bhaba and climb into the browns and blacks of rock and scree. When you finally hit the pass after the false summits, the greens of Bhaba are still visible behind you. And ahead of you, the striking, barren cold deserts of Spiti open up. No vegetation. The contrast after spending days in lush greenery is mind-boggling.
On the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek, each day is a completely different experience from the one before. It is, in every sense, like doing a new trek every single day. That’s the reason why we rank Pin Bhaba among the top three treks to do in our country.
5 Things We Love About the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
1) Forests on the Way to Mulling: Of all our treks, Pin Bhaba Pass has one of the grandest opening days. We struggle to think of another trek that packs this much variety into just day one. You enter a forest section right out of our trek base in Kafnu. These are not very dense forests, but the sheer size of the huge oaks and pines in this section will take you by surprise. For the initial part, you walk on ledges inside this forest with a turquoise river valley and small villages far below. Deeper into the trek, the forests feel straight out of a storybook, filled with birdsong, mist, and multiple small streams crisscrossing the forest floor, running in every direction.
2) Kashmir-like Meadows at Karah: You see the meadows of Karah from a high ledge long before you reach them. You can even spot your campsite from here, small yellow specks set amidst the vast meadows. When you finally drop into Karah, you realise its true scale. Sitting at the junction of three green valleys, the grasslands climb up every surrounding slope, rolling and uninterrupted all the way to the horizon. It's a bold statement to compare any meadow with the grand grasslands of Kashmir. But standing in Karah, you won't disagree.
3) Camping on a River Delta at Phutsirang: Your Phutsirang campsite sits at a high-altitude outwash plain. It's rare to find one on a trek. Getting to camp beside one is a whole different ballgame. That’s the reason it features among our 7 Most Iconic Campsites. Here, you see the Bhaba river spread wide across a narrow valley, and you camp in one corner of the delta, with massive mountains closing in on all sides. The rocky mountains leading to the Pin Bhaba Pass rise sharply in front of you. When the last rays of the sun light up those rugged mountains, it makes for one of the most dramatic sunsets you’ll ever experience.
4) The Adventure of Crossing a High Himalayan Pass: We talk a lot about the contrast at the pass — and it is stunning. But we sometimes forget what it takes to get there. You start the day early, headlamps on in the dark. What follows is a relentless ascent through boulders, rock, and scree. False summit after false summit, snow patches to negotiate, and then finally you reach the Pin Bhaba Pass, and stand 16,000 ft above sea level. It's a gruelling day. But at the top, every bit of your effort feels worth it.
5) A New Trek Every Single Day: This is what makes Pin Bhaba hard to compare with anything else. Every day is good enough to be an independent trek on its own, with a start, middle and end. On the first day, you're trekking through forests that eventually open into grand meadows rivalling Kashmir's grasslands. From there, you camp on an outwash plain, cross a high pass, and step into the barren cold desert of Spiti. And then from Bwalder, the long walk through the stark desert leads to the ancient village of Mudh. With this kind of variety, every day on the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek feels like a whole different trek altogether.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Pin Bhaba Pass : Take on the thrilling trek to Pin Bhaba Pass, arguably the grandest crossover trek of our country, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Yangpa : Experience the rich culture of the Bhaba Valley region by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Yangpa on Day 1 to dinner at Mudh on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Shimla to Yangpa costs Rs. 1800/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Shimla to Yangpa. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
On Day 8, transport will be arranged from Mudh to Beas Bridge in Manali. The cost is Rs. 2700/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Mudh to Manali. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We do not have a cloakroom facility available for extra luggage on the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek. Please plan your luggage accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.5600 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Buffer day on the trek
We have kept a buffer day on the trek to account for any weather-related delay. If this is utilised, you will need to pay Rs 2,500 + 5% GST. This amount is to be handed over to your trek leader.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Pin Bhaba Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Pin Bhaba Pass trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this map to know the terrain and challenges that you have to tackle on the map.
Day 1
Drive from Shimla to Yangpa
Drive Distance : 203 km | Drive Duration: 6-7 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Old Bus Stand, Shimla
Transport will be arranged from Old Bus Stand, Shimla at 6.30 AM. The cost is Rs. 1800/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Shimla to Yangpa . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Yangpa to Mulling
Trek Distance: 11 km | Trek Duration: 8 hours | Altitude Gain: 8,275 ft to 10,820 ft
Moderate. Easy walk on motor road for 2.65 km followed by 4.5 km ascent. Level walk for about 1 km then ascend all the way to Mulling.
Day 3
Trek from Mulling to Karah
Trek Distance: 6 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude Gain: 10,820 ft to 11,590 ft
Moderate. Gradual ascent for 3.3 km followed by 1.5 km of steep ascent, easing off at the last 1.2 km.
Day 4
Trek from Karah to Phutsirang
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude Gain: 11,590 ft to 13,485 ft
Moderate. Steep ascent throughout.
Day 5
Acclimatization and rest day at Phutsirang
Day 6
Trek from Phutsirang to Bwalder via Pin Bhaba Pass
Trek Distance: 15 km | Trek Duration: 12 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 13,485 ft to 13,435 ft via 16,105 ft
Difficult. Steep ascent for close to 4 km to reach the pass, followed by a river crossing and gradual descent through moraine, rocks and scree all the way to the campsite.
Day 7
Trek from Bwalder to Mudh
Trek Distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Altitude Loss: 13,435 ft to 12,420 ft
Moderate. Gradual ascents, descents and flat walks through moraine and rocks.
Day 8
Drive back from Mudh to Manali
Drive Distance: 232 km | Drive Duration: 7-8 hours | Drop off point Indiahikes trekkers: Beas Bridge, Manali
Transport will be arranged from Mudh to Beas Bridge in Manali. The cost is Rs. 2700/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Mudh to Manali . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 9
Buffer Day
It is mandatory to have this extra day as any bad weather or rain will delay your pass crossing. If buffer day is utilized, you will need to pay Rs.2,500 + 5% GST. This amount is to be handed over to your Trek Leader.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Shimla to Yangpa
Drive Duration: 6-7 hours | Drive Distance: 203 km
Altitude: 8,275 ft
Highlights: Drive through the valleys along the Sutlej river to one of the remotest villages of Himachal Pradesh
Getting to Yangpa is not as difficult, even though it is a remote village in the deep reaches of southern Himachal.
What makes it accessible is the hydroelectric power project near Kafnu that is on the Bhaba River. The river runs past Yangpa village up to Wangtoo. The hydel project is like the river, right at Yangpa. Hundreds of workers and local villagers work on the project. Yangpa is well connected by bus, especially from Karcham, Kalpa and Reckong Peo. There are buses from Rampur and Shimla as well.
The road to Yangpa climbs fast over the hydel power project at Wangtoo which can be nerve-wracking when the bus swings left to right on the narrow dirt road hanging over precipitous cliffs.
Read More
Getting to Yangpa is not as difficult, even though it is a remote village in the deep reaches of southern Himachal.
What makes it accessible is the hydroelectric power project near Kafnu that is on the Bhaba River. The river runs past Yangpa village up to Wangtoo. The hydel project is like the river, right at Yangpa. Hundreds of workers and local villagers work on the project. Yangpa is well connected by bus, especially from Karcham, Kalpa and Reckong Peo. There are buses from Rampur and Shimla as well.
The road to Yangpa climbs fast over the hydel power project at Wangtoo which can be nerve-wracking when the bus swings left to right on the narrow dirt road hanging over precipitous cliffs.
You will stay at Yangpa for the night, at one of the local lodges. It’s important to use the day to rest in preparation for the trek to Mulling tomorrow.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Yangpa to Mulling
Trek Duration: 8 hours | Trek Distance: 11 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 8,275 ft to 10,820 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Easy walk on the motor road for 2.65 km followed by a 4.5 km ascent. Level walk for about 1 km then ascends to Mulling.
Highlights: The variety of forests you trek through the day.
Day 1 of the Pin Bhaba Pass trek will always rate as one of the most beautiful days of trekking. So exquisite is the trail through a largely coniferous forest – it is rare to come across such a trek.
The trek starts from Yangpa . Brace yourself for a challenging day. It’s important to get a head start considering the trekking distance and the altitude gain are quite a challenge.
Note: If you take the route from Kafnu village, walk for about 200 meters and you will spot India’s first underground dam, the ‘ Bhaba Hydro Project ‘. Photography is prohibited .
Read More
Day 1 of the Pin Bhaba Pass trek will always rate as one of the most beautiful days of trekking. So exquisite is the trail through a largely coniferous forest – it is rare to come across such a trek.
The trek starts from Yangpa . Brace yourself for a challenging day. It’s important to get a head start considering the trekking distance and the altitude gain are quite a challenge.
Note: If you take the route from Kafnu village, walk for about 200 meters and you will spot India’s first underground dam, the ‘ Bhaba Hydro Project ‘. Photography is prohibited .
About 2 km into this trail, you will reach a bridge. Cross the bridge to reach the left bank of the Bhaba river . Shortly after crossing the bridge, you will notice a narrow route going up from the motorable route – take this trail.
Continue to walk along this route for 4.4 km . At this juncture, you will be surrounded by the dense vegetation of a jungle. The landscape is blessed with the graceful presence of silver birch, pine and oak trees . The sweet sound of birds chirping adds more charm to this spot. The confluence of such beautiful trees, all within a single frame will make this one of the most memorable highlights of this trek . A flat 1 km walk from this section will lead you to a beautiful clearing. This terrain is riddled with mud, grass and small stones.
About 6.8 km into the trek, you will reach a beautiful campsite surrounded by trees. This place is called ‘ Champoria ‘. From this spot, you will need to cross the Bhaba river. Cross the river via the log bridge to reach the right bank of the Bhaba river .
After crossing over, continue walking along the river bank and you will spot a tributary of the Bhaba river . From this point onwards, you will need to pace yourself slowly for the ascent. 10 km into the trek, you will reach a place called Jhandi Top. This is a good spot to catch your breath. From the Jhandi top, the Mulling hut and campsite are visible. From here, it’s a short 1.3 km hike to reach the campsite. If you’re trekking independently, you can choose to stay at the abandoned hut, which has two rooms. Alternatively, you can pitch a tent here.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Mulling to Karah
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 6 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 10,820 ft to 11,590 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent for 3.3 km followed by 1.5 km of steep ascent, easing off for the last 1.2 km.
Highlights: The meadow with flower beds. Karah river and Karah campsite.
Today’s trek starts with a gradual ascent through rocky terrain. About 1.6 km into the trek, you will arrive at a beautiful meadow and a waterfall towards your right. From this section, it’s a gradual ascent of another 1.7 km to reach an interesting geographical phenomenon. You can hear the sound of a river but you won’t be able to see it. This feature is called a subterranean river , where the water flows beneath the surface of the ground. From this section, it’s a 1.5 km steep ascent to the top to reach an exquisite meadow with flower beds .
After passing the meadow, continue to walk for another 1.2 km to reach the campsite near a water stream. You will find a lake within 200 meters of the campsite. The lake boasts stunning reflections when it’s sunny. You can set up your campsite at Karah. You will have the entire afternoon to rest and recuperate for challenges that lie ahead.
Read More
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Today’s trek starts with a gradual ascent through rocky terrain. About 1.6 km into the trek, you will arrive at a beautiful meadow and a waterfall towards your right. From this section, it’s a gradual ascent of another 1.7 km to reach an interesting geographical phenomenon. You can hear the sound of a river but you won’t be able to see it. This feature is called a subterranean river , where the water flows beneath the surface of the ground. From this section, it’s a 1.5 km steep ascent to the top to reach an exquisite meadow with flower beds .
After passing the meadow, continue to walk for another 1.2 km to reach the campsite near a water stream. You will find a lake within 200 meters of the campsite. The lake boasts stunning reflections when it’s sunny. You can set up your campsite at Karah. You will have the entire afternoon to rest and recuperate for challenges that lie ahead.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Karah to Phutsirang
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek Distance: 5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 11,590 ft to 13,485 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Steep ascent throughout.
Highlights: The vantage point from Phutsirang where you see three beautiful mountain passes.
Today is the shortest day of the entire trek since you have to cover only 5 km . Brace yourself for a steep ascent. The first order of the day is to cross the tributary of the Bhaba river. The mountain stream approaches from the left side of Phutsirang. Cross the stream and continue to climb the steep slope.
Tread with care since the terrain is a combination of stone and lose mud . The entire route today is dominated by mountain stream crossings and humps, which can be a bit taxing. You must pace yourself accordingly.
About 4.20 km into the trek, you will arrive at a campsite which has been set up for lower Phutsirang. From this spot, continue the upward climb for another 700 meters and you will reach Phutsirang .
Read More
Today is the shortest day of the entire trek since you have to cover only 5 km . Brace yourself for a steep ascent. The first order of the day is to cross the tributary of the Bhaba river. The mountain stream approaches from the left side of Phutsirang. Cross the stream and continue to climb the steep slope.
Tread with care since the terrain is a combination of stone and lose mud . The entire route today is dominated by mountain stream crossings and humps, which can be a bit taxing. You must pace yourself accordingly.
About 4.20 km into the trek, you will arrive at a campsite which has been set up for lower Phutsirang. From this spot, continue the upward climb for another 700 meters and you will reach Phutsirang .
Phustsirang will serve as the perfect vantage point to get a glimpse of three beautiful mountain passes: Nimish Khango (16,185 feet), Tari Khango (17,318 feet) and Pin Bhaba Pass a.k.a Wang Khango (16,105 feet).
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Acclimatisation and Rest Day at Phutsirang
Today is your rest day to acclimatise. Walk across Phutsirang to Tia Valley and explore the greener sides around Phutsirang.
Read More
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Today is your rest day to acclimatise. Walk across Phutsirang to Tia Valley and explore the greener sides around Phutsirang.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Phutsirang to Bwalder via Pin Bhaba Pass
Trek Duration: 12 hours | Trek Distance: 15 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: 13,485 ft to 13,435 ft via 16,105 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. Steep ascent for close to 3 km to reach the pass. Initial 2 km of steep descent from the pass followed by a river crossing and gradual descent through moraine and scree all the way to the campsite.
Highlights: The thrilling pass crossing at 16,105 ft.
Brace yourself for an exciting day. Today, you will be conquering steep slopes and navigating through the high mountain passes connecting Bhaba and Pin valleys. Trekkers who have ascended a mountain pass will tell you that it’s an experience that is as thrilling as scaling a summit. The sense of adventure and accomplishment you derive is far greater than a summit ascent because you go in with lower expectations.
From the saddle point of the pass (the highest point between the mountain valley), you will notice the sudden shift in the landscape. The geographical contradictions are well pronounced in this spot. You will be leaving behind the lush grasslands of Bhaba Valley and moving to the brown, desert mountain valleys of Pin. The Pin river can also be seen from this point. The descent is steep and it is tricky since it’s a combination of moraine, glacier and scree . Negotiate this terrain slowly.
About 2 km into the descent , you will spot the Pin river. Remove your footwear to cross the river to get onto the right side of the river. From here on, it’s a gradual descent yet riddled with moraine and scree. Pace yourself slowly and rest if you must. About 7 km from the river crossing, you will be able to see the Bwalder campsite below the trail.
Read More
Brace yourself for an exciting day. Today, you will be conquering steep slopes and navigating through the high mountain passes connecting Bhaba and Pin valleys. Trekkers who have ascended a mountain pass will tell you that it’s an experience that is as thrilling as scaling a summit. The sense of adventure and accomplishment you derive is far greater than a summit ascent because you go in with lower expectations.
From the saddle point of the pass (the highest point between the mountain valley), you will notice the sudden shift in the landscape. The geographical contradictions are well pronounced in this spot. You will be leaving behind the lush grasslands of Bhaba Valley and moving to the brown, desert mountain valleys of Pin. The Pin river can also be seen from this point. The descent is steep and it is tricky since it’s a combination of moraine, glacier and scree . Negotiate this terrain slowly.
About 2 km into the descent , you will spot the Pin river. Remove your footwear to cross the river to get onto the right side of the river. From here on, it’s a gradual descent yet riddled with moraine and scree. Pace yourself slowly and rest if you must. About 7 km from the river crossing, you will be able to see the Bwalder campsite below the trail.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 7: Trek from Bwalder to Mudh
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek Distance: 13 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 13,435 ft to 12,420 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascents, descents and flat walks through moraine and rocks.
Highlights: Witness the changing colours of the landscape from lush green to brownish pink
Today is the last day of the trek. Brace yourself for the long 14.29 km stretch to Mudh. Start as early as possible from your campsite. Climb the slope from Bwalder to reach the trail and continue walking along with the same. The distance between Bwalder and Bara Boulder is 2 km and from the Bara Boulder campsite, it’s a gradual descent through a section filled with moraine. This campsite is a good spot but the water isn’t clean. It’s recommended that your water bottles are stocked up at Bwalder. The tributary of the Pin river is just 300 meters from Bara Boulder . Cross this stream using the log bridge. The trail from Bara boulder is completely flat and is dominated by red soil and small red stones.
A flat walk for 1.5 km from Bara Boulder will take you to the banks of a mountain stream. Cross the stream using the log bridge to reach a dry, flat stretch of land . The Mudh village will be visible even from a distance of 5 km. It’s a picture worthy of a postcard and the beauty of this place is otherworldly .
The sight of the village will motivate you to push yourself for this final stretch . The Pin river is the last river that you’ll need to cross to access the village. This is yet another exciting experience in this trek. The view of the suspension bridge dangling over the Pin river is a sight to behold.
Read More
Today is the last day of the trek. Brace yourself for the long 14.29 km stretch to Mudh. Start as early as possible from your campsite. Climb the slope from Bwalder to reach the trail and continue walking along with the same. The distance between Bwalder and Bara Boulder is 2 km and from the Bara Boulder campsite, it’s a gradual descent through a section filled with moraine. This campsite is a good spot but the water isn’t clean. It’s recommended that your water bottles are stocked up at Bwalder. The tributary of the Pin river is just 300 meters from Bara Boulder . Cross this stream using the log bridge. The trail from Bara boulder is completely flat and is dominated by red soil and small red stones.
A flat walk for 1.5 km from Bara Boulder will take you to the banks of a mountain stream. Cross the stream using the log bridge to reach a dry, flat stretch of land . The Mudh village will be visible even from a distance of 5 km. It’s a picture worthy of a postcard and the beauty of this place is otherworldly .
The sight of the village will motivate you to push yourself for this final stretch . The Pin river is the last river that you’ll need to cross to access the village. This is yet another exciting experience in this trek. The view of the suspension bridge dangling over the Pin river is a sight to behold.
Cross the river via the suspension bridge. After crossing the river, it’s a short climb to reach the village.
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Drive from Mudh back to Manali
Duration: 7-8 hours | Drive Distance: 232 km
We have put together a list of places you must visit if you are going to Spiti . Don’t miss any of the places on this list – Side Excursions from Spiti After Your Trek To Pin Bhaba .
Read More
go to previous day Day 7
We have put together a list of places you must visit if you are going to Spiti . Don’t miss any of the places on this list – Side Excursions from Spiti After Your Trek To Pin Bhaba .
go to previous day Day 7
How Difficult is the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 50 km in six trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 7,830 ft (8,275 ft to 16,105 ft). Every day will include steep ascents and descents. You also need to navigate extensive boulder fields on certain days. There are several difficult sections on this trek that require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
On the first day of your trek, you need to cross a tributary of the Bhaba river that flows between Yangpa and Mulling. The stream has a strong current, and a wooden log is placed across it. However, the log sometimes gets washed off by exceptionally strong flow. In such cases, the Indiahikes technical team will set up a travelling traverse across the river.
There are several other river crossings on the trek as well. They look easy from afar, but the flow gets stronger as the day progresses. This increases the risk of slipping or injury. Try to cross rivers early in the morning. Sometimes even as early as 5 AM. Especially after the pass, you cross the Pin River, which is biting cold (since it originates from the glacier just a little distance away).
There is an extensive scree zone before and after the Pin Bhaba Pass. This is hard on your knees and you also need to be continuously aware of loose rocks that may come rolling at you.
The Pin Bhaba Pass, at over 16,000 ft, often witnesses heavy snowfall. This, coupled with an approach through steep, unstable terrain, makes the pass crossing the most difficult section on the trek. The pass itself is very narrow, barely wide enough to accommodate a few trekkers at a time. The descent to Pin Valley, while rewarding, is steep and especially taxing after a long climb to the pass.
You will be walking on moraine and loose scree for a long distance on the Pass Crossing Day. This comes with rockfall risk. You'll be handed safety gear and your Trek Leader will instruct you on methods that help you safely negotiate the rockfall zones.
The trek has very long days. You walk more than 10 km on multiple days. This is not easy, especially at the high altitudes.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Since Pin Bhaba Pass Trek is only accessible in monsoon, come mentally prepared for rains. Especially while you are on the Kullu side of the trek. It can rain for a day or even several days. You must carry proper rain gear.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The Pin Bhaba Pass is situated at 16,105 ft above sea level.
At Phutsirang, you camp over 13,000 ft above sea-level and then push for the rigorous pass crossing from there.
Even with an extra day factored in for acclimatisation, you are prone to Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS) on this trek. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
Being a crossover trek, the Pin Bhaba trek has limited exit points from the trail. In case of any emergency, if you haven’t crossed the pass, then head back to Yangpa before getting back to Shimla.
On the other hand, if you have crossed the pass, getting down to Mudh and heading to Manali is your only option.
Closest Hospital to the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek:
For mild medical issues, the closest hospitals to the Pin Bhaba Pass trek are located in Rampur Bushahr and Kumarsain. This includes sprains and fractures.
Here is a list of hospitals where medical assistance can be sought.
Rampur Bushahr: Government Hospital and Dr B K Arora Hospital
Kumarsain: Civil Hospital
If you’ve crossed the pass, then head to Kaza: Civil Hospital
For any advanced injuries or illness, head to Shimla which is 200 km from Kafnu. Mudh, on the other side of the pass, is closer to Manali which is 250 km away.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
How to Get Fit for the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 10 km in under 60 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 60 Standard Pushups = (4 x 25 = 100 knee pushups) = (4 x 50 = 200 wall pushups)
Alternative to 80 full squats = (4 x 40 = 160 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Best Time to do the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to do the trek is from the month's mid-July to early-September .
Contrary to regular high-altitude treks that open in Summer and then in Autumn, this trek opens at the end of summer and ends mid-autumn. Monsoon months are the best time to do the trek.
Most of the trek lies in the rain shadow area of the Himalayas, like the Pin valley of the Spiti region. This after passing the cross.
And though one cannot call the region before the pass as lying in the rain shadow area, it is drier than the Rohru side of Himachal Pradesh which is closer to Rupin Pass.
We’ve noticed that during June there is a high amount of snow near the pass making it a risky affair.
Having said that it's not impossible to do the trek in June. But July onward the trail gets slightly more comfortable.
Pin Bhaba Pass in July and August
Day time temperature: Between 16 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperatures: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -2 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow during early June to mid-July. The snow starts to melt in the later part of July, giving way to rain showers.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
When the season begins in June, the entire trail is green. With all the snow having melted, the valley turns a shade or two greener in July and August.
You’ll be left astounded by the lush green meadows with wildflowers blooming in abandon. Especially at Karah, which our trekkers rave about after coming back. They know why we speak so highly of the campsites on the Pin Bhaba trek.
You’ll notice the meadows thinning just before Phutsirang, though.
Phutsirang is not an alpine zone, but you are at the transition point. It has its charm. Notice the colours and texture of the land and vegetation changing. You don't get grass, but they look like colourful moss on soil or rocks.
After Phutsirang, the steep climb takes you to the alpine zone, and the vegetation is sparse.
Here is where you start noticing the stark contrast between what you left behind and what lies ahead.
Nowhere is the drama of this contrast more apparent than when you’re standing at the pass.
The Spiti region looks desolate compared to the Kinnaur region from where you started.
Behind you lie the greens of the Kinnaur region, while down below, in front of you, are the pinks of Spiti.
Pin Bhaba Pass in September
Day time temperature: Between 14 °C and 16 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to temperatures between -3 °C and -5 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow in the autumn months on Pin Bhaba Pass.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
By September, most of the intermittent showers that hit the Kinnaur side of the pass have passed. The skies, therefore, are much clearer.
The trail starts changing colour. The lower campsites are still primarily green. And it’s only mid-September and onward that they participate in this riot of colours that the season brings.
But Phutsirang campsite is especially magnificent in its shades of oranges, yellows and reds.
While on the other side of the pass, the landscape looks more or less the same.
The month of September, somewhere around the middle of the month, is a fantastic time to do the trek. You can take in all the clear skies, the colours and the drama of the trek before the pass shuts down.
Towards the end of September, the pass receives the first snowfall of the season, blocking access to the Spiti region.
At Indiahikes, we wind up the trekking season from the third week of September until the next season.
Is trekking in monsoon safe?
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
How to get to Yangpa
The base camp of the Pin Bhaba trek is Yangpa, 205 km from Shimla . Yangpa is a quaint village in the Bhaba valley of Kinnaur. Due to its elevation and accessibility to the Sutlej River, it is home to a wide variety of flora. You will be passing through Rampur, and the journey boasts grand views of the Kinnaur mountain range.
Indiahikes arranges transport from Shimla to Yangpa. The pick up is from Shimla Old Bus Stand at 6.30 am on Day 1 . The cab fare is Rs 8,500 per vehicle. This cost is not included in the trek fee. It is to be shared amongst trekkers and paid directly to the driver. It will take around 7-8 hours to reach Yangpa.
Reaching Shimla
Shimla can be accessed directly by bus from Delhi. This journey takes 10-12 hours. Regular buses are available from the New Delhi ISBT. We recommend that you reach Shimla the previous day to make it in time for the Indiahikes transport to Yangpa.
You can also take a train to Chandigarh or Kalka. Buses and cabs are available from both these places to Shimla. There is an is an overnight train that reaches Kalka by 4.30 am - this departs from Old Delhi Railway station at 21.25. Kalka Shatabdi leaves from New Delhi Railway station at 7.40 am and reached Kalka by 11.45 am.
You can set up Google navigation here.
Getting Back
The trek ends at Mudh. Indiahikes arranges transport from Mudh to Manali. The cab fare will be Rs 15,000 for a 6-seater and Rs 20,000 for a Tempo Traveller (12-seater) . This cost is not included in the trek fee. It is to be shared amongst trekkers and paid directly to the driver. You will reach Manali by 7.00 pm.
You can set up Google navigation here.
You will need to stay in Manali for a night since buses to Delhi depart between 4.00 pm to 6.00 pm. Take a bus to Delhi the following day.
Reaching Yangpa on your own
If you plan to get to Yangpa on your own, take a bus from Shimla that's headed to Karcham/Rekong Peo from the new bus stand. Take an early morning bus, preferably before 6.30 am. The bus takes about 6 hours or so to get to the Kafnu diversion on the way to Wangtu. Wait at the iron bridge for a bus that's headed to Yangpa. It may take a while. The wait can easily be an hour or two.
There is a direct bus to Kafnu (2 km before the Yangpa bus stop) as well. While the official timetable mentions that it leaves the New Bus Stand at Tutikandi in Shimla by 8.30 AM, the bus may leave earlier if seats fill up fast. So we recommend that you be at the Bus Stand latest by 7.30 AM to avail a direct bus upto Kafnu. From Kafnu, you will need to hitch a ride upto Yangpa. However, these buses can get crowded. A better option might be to take shared vehicles which go all the way to Yangpa. You'll easily find them standing right outside the bus-stand till around 9 AM in the morning.
Travelling to Kaza on your own
From Mudh , vehicles can be hired for the journey to Kaza for Rs 2,100 for a jeep/Sumo. Alternatively, a bus is available at 6.30 am.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack on the Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
1. How long is the Pin Bhaba Pass trek? expand accordion
The Pin Bhaba Pass is roughly a 50 km trek starting at Yangpa in the Kinnaur region of Himachal Pradesh. The trek ends at the village of Mudh in the Spiti region of Himachal Pradesh.
Be prepared to walk long distances on the first and the last couple of days of the trek. It can be jarring.
Especially, on the summit day, when you’re already exhausted, you’re staring at a 16-18 km long day.
2. Is there electricity available on the Pin Bhaba trek? expand accordion
Yangpa and Mudh are the only two points where electricity is available on the trek. However, the electricity is extremely intermittent and can be absent for most of the day.
So, we strongly encourage you to bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Beware that the power from your batteries will drain faster in the cold temperatures of this region. So, put the batteries in a small pouch and keep them inside your sleeping bag to keep them warm during the night.
Is trekking in monsoon safe? expand accordion
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
3. What is buffer day on Pin Bhaba Pass trek and how will it be used? expand accordion
At Indiahikes, we understand the time, energy and efforts that you put into preparing for a trek.
And it is awful to have to leave the trek incomplete and come back because of any weather-related issues. Especially a trek as beautiful as Pin Bhaba.
Therefore we account for a buffer day to take care of any delays caused by weather or terrain related challenges that cause a delay in proceeding with the trek.
If buffer day is utilized, you will need to pay Rs 2,500 + 5% GST (Rs.125). This amount is to be handed over to your trek leader.
4. What is the height of Pin Bhaba Pass? expand accordion
The Pin Bhaba Pass lies at a height of 16,105 ft.
Starting at Yangpa (7,878 ft) you climb to Pin Bhaba Pass (16,105 ft) over the next 4 days of trekking. The trail climbs until Mulling followed by a steady climb until Phutsirang where the trail climbs again. The descent that follows too is not an easy one.
This trek does require a great amount of cardiovascular endurance as well as strong legs. Prepare well.
5. Where will I find ATMs on the Pin Bhaba Pass trek? expand accordion
Rampur Bushahr is the last place en route Yangpa to make withdrawals to keep some cash handy. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and even branches in Rampur.
Once you cross the pass, Kaza has an SBI ATM, but there have been regular reports of it being out of order or out of cash.
Therefore, Rampur Bushahr is your best option if you want to withdraw cash. Although there is no opportunity to spend money while on the trek ( except in case of a buffer day being used ).
6. Will there be any mobile phone network and/or internet connection on Pin Bhaba Pass trek? expand accordion
You will find mobile phone networks — Jio, Airtel, Vodafone and BSNL at the base camp. But at Mudh, only BSNL works.
On the other side of the pass, Kaza has a mobile phone network and internet connection, but don’t count on them to be reliable.
7. I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Difficult treks, you’re likely to trek around 12-20 km each day. Expect extremely steep ascents and descents. Expect maximum altitudes above 15,000 ft, which can go up to 19,000+ ft. Technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks, boulder and scree sections) are an everyday affair. Some sections can only be crossed with the help of our Technical Staff.
Difficult treks are the most demanding, which is why we take only those trekkers with prior trekking experience on them.
To do a difficult trek, target running 5 km within 30 minutes consistently. This will be possible only if you can run 5 km within 30 minutes comfortably before signing up for a difficult trek.
This fitness chart will help you get there by following the plan for 8 weeks (or 2 months) before the start of your trek.
You will receive a questionnaire asking for your current fitness level and high altitude experience. Only those who have prior high altitude trekking experience will be allowed to sign up for difficult treks.
If you’re above the age of 58 years, you’ll also need to submit your Treadmill Test within 7 days of completing your registration.
8. Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Pin Bhaba trek is Rs 5,600 for the entire trek .
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.