Pir Panjal Lakes Trek 2026 | A Remote Himalayan Traverse Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
The Grandest Trek in J&K with 10 lakes, 4 meadows and endless jaw-dropping moments
We have called off this trek for 2026. Consider the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek instead.
With grand meadows and a dramatic crossover to Spiti, we rank Pin Bhaba among our Top 3 Treks of All Time. View the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
The Grandest Trek in J&K with 10 lakes, 4 meadows and endless jaw-dropping moments
Things are still sinking in for me after what we got to witness on this exploratory trek. I am unable to put words into what we went through in this hidden gem of Jammu and Kashmir.
First, the forest section. I haven't seen any other treks in Kashmir with such dense forests. It's a mix of pine and oak. There were such deafening sounds from cicadas and birds as we walked that we couldn’t hear each other speak. For most of us, this transported us to our Uttarakhand forests.
play video
Next, the alpine lakes. Not 1, 2, or 7, 8. We were lucky to see 14 alpine lakes on this exploratory trek! We didn't even get the chance to walk around all the lakes. They were massive. What was more special were the climbs to the passes, which acted as vantage points to view these lakes. The colours changed from oceanic blue to turquoise to teal. The shapes changed. At every turn, just watching them was a treat.
Read more
expand overview
Next, the alpine lakes. Not 1, 2, or 7, 8. We were lucky to see 14 alpine lakes on this exploratory trek! We didn't even get the chance to walk around all the lakes. They were massive. What was more special were the climbs to the passes, which acted as vantage points to view these lakes. The colours changed from oceanic blue to turquoise to teal. The shapes changed. At every turn, just watching them was a treat.
And then the meadows! Four different meadows over six days. Thera, Paindhari, Kuan and Byad which extends to Sarota. Each was magnificent in its own right. Thera allowed us to camp on a beautiful mound that nobody wanted to leave. Kuan reminded us of the moon-like landscape of Gidara Bugyal. Byad transported us to the sprawling meadows of the Kashmir Great Lakes. The setting of these meadows was something else. Multiple valleys snaked out of the meadows. Streams flowed in abundance. Mountains bordered the meadows like gentle giants. I remember smiling for no reason for an hour and shaking my head in disbelief at what I was seeing.
For all the trekkers in the team, this was by far the best trek they have done till date (including 5 who have done other Kashmir treks). I am still unable to believe what I saw. Having been to the Kashmir Great Lakes and Warwan Valley, two of the grandest treks in Kashmir, I must say they have tough competition.
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Pir Panjal Lakes : Take on the adventure of the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek, one of the grandest treks in Jammu and Kashmir, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Local Homestay: Experience the rich culture of Kashmir by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Chandimarh on Day 1 to Packed Lunch at Nandansar on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base:
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Srinagar to Chandimarh costs Rs 7000 per vehicle, which is to be shared by trekkers availing the pick-up.
On Day 6, the drop-off to Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Srinagar from the roadhead at Pir Ki Gali costs Rs 7,000.
All vehicles are non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs. 4800 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Pir Panjal Lakes - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find these extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Drive from Srinagar to Chandimarh
Drive distance : 127 km | Duration: 4 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels , Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar.
We will pick you at 8.00 AM. Have lunch on the way and reach Chandimarh via Behrangala. Cab cost – Rs 7,000 per vehicle (5-6 Seater), to be paid by trekkers directly to the driver. The vehicle will be non-AC.
You will collect your rentals and submit cloakroom on your way to Chandimarh from Indiahikes Base which falls on the way.
Day 2
Trek from Chandimarh to Thera
Trek distance : 7.8 km | Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude gain: 5,986 ft to 9,357 ft
Day 3
Trek from Thera to Khuan
Trek distance: 9.2 km | Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude gain: 9,357 ft to 10,900 ft
Day 4
Trek from Khuan to Neelsar
Trek distance : 5.5 km | Duration: 6 hours | Altitude gain: 10,900 ft to 12,170 ft
Day 5
Trek from Neelsar to Chandansar
Trek distance : 7 km | Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude gain: 12,170 ft to 12,923 ft
Day 6
Trek from Chandansar to Nandansar via Handusar
Trek distance: 9.2 km | Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude loss: 12,923 ft to 12,313 ft via 13,330 ft
Day 7
Trek from Nandansar to Peer Ki Gali. Drive to Srinagar
Trek distance : 9.6 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude loss: 12,313 ft to 11,447 ft via 13,727 ft | Drive distance: 125 km | Duration: 4 hours |
Expect to reach Srinagar by 8:00 pm
IMPORTANT POINTS
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
➤ Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next
Day 1: Drive from Srinagar to Chandimarh
Drive distance: 129 km | Duration: 4-5 hours
The drive from Srinagar to Chandimarh takes you through the district of Shopian.
The big highlight of this drive would be travelling via the iconic Mughal road. This ancient route was used by the Mughals to connect the Pakistan Karakoram Valley to the Srinagar Valley. This road crosses the Pir Panjal range and is a treat for your eyes.
The roads are smooth in the Kashmir valley. You can make a quick stop at Peer Bhaba which divides Kashmir and Jammu.
Read More
The drive from Srinagar to Chandimarh takes you through the district of Shopian.
The big highlight of this drive would be travelling via the iconic Mughal road. This ancient route was used by the Mughals to connect the Pakistan Karakoram Valley to the Srinagar Valley. This road crosses the Pir Panjal range and is a treat for your eyes.
The roads are smooth in the Kashmir valley. You can make a quick stop at Peer Bhaba which divides Kashmir and Jammu.
From here, in about 10 minutes on the way, there is an army checkpoint. So make sure you have your ID card handy. Once you cross into the Jammu region, the mountain roads are prone to landslides. So the roads are a bit patchy with holes as you exit the pass.
Chandimarh is your first village once you cross. It has a very small market and is a beautiful place to explore. At the market, one can try the local cuisine of butter chai and the bread of Fulka.
You will be staying the night here in the Tourism Lodge Guest House. This is where you will be meeting the trek leader, and team for the safety check-in and registration process.
If you have more time, you can visit the famous Noori Chamb waterfall (named after the Mughal queen Nur Jahanor and one of the tallest waterfalls of the Poonch region) or take a stroll with the Chath Nalla flowing here at Chandimarh.
Do not worry if you miss going to this waterfall since tomorrow, your trek starts by crossing it.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Chandimarh to Thera
Trek distance: 8 km | Duration: 7-8 hours
Altitude gain: 5,986 ft to 9,357 ft
Trek gradient: Difficult. Day of ascent with a gain of 3,500 feet. Gradual ascent until Cheii village, followed by a combination of steep ascent and again a gradual ascent. The last section to the campsite again has a steep ascent.
The day starts from the Tourism lodge towards the Noori Chmab waterfall.
Take the gradual ascent to reach the roadhead. You will spot a Government school and a little ahead is a 400-year-old Shiva temple. This temple area is usually patrolled by army officials. So having a word with them the previous day and informing them about the team going on the trek helps.
This road leads to a village, which you don't have to go through and can avoid. Take the small gully or the deviation on the right. This takes you directly to the entrance of the forest section, where the mud trail starts.
Read More
The day starts from the Tourism lodge towards the Noori Chmab waterfall.
Take the gradual ascent to reach the roadhead. You will spot a Government school and a little ahead is a 400-year-old Shiva temple. This temple area is usually patrolled by army officials. So having a word with them the previous day and informing them about the team going on the trek helps.
This road leads to a village, which you don't have to go through and can avoid. Take the small gully or the deviation on the right. This takes you directly to the entrance of the forest section, where the mud trail starts.
This day is mostly through dense forest. It is a mixed forest with fir, pine, and oak popping in between. The sounds of Cicadas and crickets are deafening to your ears. Enjoy your walk in these forests and keep continuing your trek.
The trail is a constant, gradual climb. About 3 km into this trail, you come across the last village, known as the Cheii village.
The setting of Cheii village is picturesque. The entire village is built with structures and houses made of mud, and straw. Few houses are scattered, and few are in clusters, this is something unique to witness for trekkers. The villagers here sustain their lives with local produce. Houses have no cylinders in their kitchens, and people use firewood to cook. The villagers are also very warm, and welcoming towards trekkers.
Fill your water bottles before you restart. The trail now takes a steeper ascent through the forest section.
This forest suddenly transforms into a different setting. You now have some oak trees, pines, fir and juniper shrubs around you. This is different vegetation compared to the section before the village. There are sections of this forest that transport you to forest sections in Uttarakhand.
Combined with a few clearings in this forest, you will be lost listening to the birds chirping as you climb for another 2 km.
As you trek through the forest, you are in for a big surprise! End the forest, and the landscape just opens up to the view of a huge green valley. Now you have officially entered the Girjan meadows, with a small temporary dhaba and Peer Bhaba ka shrine located here.
Girjan Meadow is one of the largest meadows in the Poonch region, with green hillocks around you. Reach the top of the hillock on a ridge setting towards your first campsite of Thera.
Towards the left, you can see multiple clusters of stepped Dhoks (Sheperd huts) on a hillock setting, and the other side is daunting with the Pir Panjal ranges. This view is a different world in itself and has multiple opportunities to explore.
Do not miss going to the sunset point, facing towards the left. You can walk barefoot around the lush, soft meadow, and if you get lucky, you get to witness the floating clouds with the sunset in the background.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Thera to Khuan
Trek distance: 9.2 km | Duration: 8-9 hours
Altitude gain: 9,357 ft to 10,900 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate. Initial steep climb to reach the forest section and then taking the ledge and ridge. Gradual ascent for 2.5 km to reach Panjdhari army camp. Flat walk to reach Khuan
Today’s trek goes further into the Girjan meadows. Even though it is the same connecting meadow, the landscape changes and brings one surprise after another as you keep going higher in this meadow region.
The day starts with a small ascent from the Thera campsite to the forest section.
This forest has pine trees and oaks bordering it. Look out for the butterflies fluttering around and the chirping of birds. You will be amazed to see how the forest ends and Bada Thera starts immediately. It is about an hour away from the campsite to this meadow section of Bada Thera.
Read More
Today’s trek goes further into the Girjan meadows. Even though it is the same connecting meadow, the landscape changes and brings one surprise after another as you keep going higher in this meadow region.
The day starts with a small ascent from the Thera campsite to the forest section.
This forest has pine trees and oaks bordering it. Look out for the butterflies fluttering around and the chirping of birds. You will be amazed to see how the forest ends and Bada Thera starts immediately. It is about an hour away from the campsite to this meadow section of Bada Thera.
You can roll around this meadow, walk barefoot, and take a good rest over here. You get the panoramic view of the Pir Panjal at the viewpoint of Bada Tera. This is also the place where you can fill water bottles.
Ascend from Bada Thera to reach the top with a zig-zag walk. Form the top, you get to see the entire view of the forest that you crossed, the river, valley, Bada Tera, Dhok and the previous campsite.
From here, you next approach the last forest section with a ledge walk on the mountain slope. This would be the last of the forests for the next few days. This forest is a mix of gradual ascent and descent. Most of the time, thick mist engulfs the whole mountain as you climb up and down the ledges. It almost transports you towards the North East (setting similar to Sandakphu or Goechala trek). So make the best use of this forest and enjoy this section before entering a tiny ridge.
The ridge now opens up views of both sides of the valley, including the Pir Panjal mountain and the Tathakuti peak. After about an hour of your trek, you come to the meadows of Paindhari. You have an army camp and helipad located at this location of vast openness. The team will have their ID cards checked.
Panjdhari or Paindhari as the locals call it, is where the expansive meadow starts and the forest section ends. You are just 2 km away from the second campsite in Khuan. All your efforts of ascent through the forest and ridge climb just vanish away from here. You are treated to a flat walk and a reward that was awaiting you.
The meadows of Kuan are a cauldron between the valley folds of the surrounding mountains. There are multiple Dhoks here which the shepherds use to bring their cattle and graze in this vast expanse.
Khuan campsite is again a great place for explorers. One section of Khuan has a boulder patch, while the rest is a complete green meadow. One can go and just lie down or sit, read a book beside the flowing stream, or run around to explore the Dhoks.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Khuan to Neelsar
Trek distance: 5.5 km | Duration: 6 hours
Altitude gain: 10,900 ft to 12,170 ft
Trek gradient: Easy-Moderate. Descent from Kuan meadows and then a steep ascent towards Byaad meadows. Gradual ascent until the clearing and reaching the lake of Neelsar
Today is perhaps the most anticipated day for trekkers. You trek to see the first alpine lake of Neelsar and camp close to this charming lake.
The day starts with a climb from the Khuan campsite to reach the opening of the col. Keep your eyes open for Griffons flying above you. From here, you need to take the trail going towards the left, with a slight descent. Notice a Dhok below.
Take this trail for about 20 minutes, and you will have a small stream to cross. Trekkers need to navigate and traverse multiple small patches of boulders. Be careful of this stretch. This section is prone to rockfall and landslides.
Read More
Today is perhaps the most anticipated day for trekkers. You trek to see the first alpine lake of Neelsar and camp close to this charming lake.
The day starts with a climb from the Khuan campsite to reach the opening of the col. Keep your eyes open for Griffons flying above you. From here, you need to take the trail going towards the left, with a slight descent. Notice a Dhok below.
Take this trail for about 20 minutes, and you will have a small stream to cross. Trekkers need to navigate and traverse multiple small patches of boulders. Be careful of this stretch. This section is prone to rockfall and landslides.
Cross this, and then the ascent starts again. The ascent takes an hour to reach the top.
Don't forget to turn back and see the view every now and then. You have the view of Khuan, the meadows, and the valley of Panjdhari.
Once you finish the ascent, you are in for a treat! You would not have imagined seeing Byad meadows and a setting that you have never seen before. The meadows of Byad are completely different from Thera or Khuan. A green therapy to your eyes, and the carpet just spreads as much as your eyes can see. Take a breather here.
Walk along the meadows of Byad until you reach the boulder zone. Your zig-zag climb for about an hour next goes around the mountain to reach the lake of Neelsar.
All the efforts taken until now just disappear when you get the first glimpse of Neelsar. You are beginning to think about which side you would want to explore first, or just dip your feet in the cold waters of the lake.
You have the rest of the day to visit the lakes of Neelsar II, Neelsar III, Dingsar, and Gumsar.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Neelsar to Chandansar
Trek distance: 7 km | Duration: 8-9 hours
Altitude gain: 12,170 ft to 12,923 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate-Difficult. Rocky and bouldery terrain near the lakes and meadows in between, with a few stream crossings when crossing the Kaldachni Pass
The day starts with the climb to Kaldachni Pass. Trekkers have to cross this pass and then head towards Nandansar through a field of boulders.
There is no clearly marked trail from Neelsar to the pass. This climb to Kaldachni Pass will test the cardio and legs of the entire team. As you keep gaining altitude, keep looking back at the campsite location and the lakes. With every turn, the colors of these lakes change.
The ascent takes about an hour to reach the viewpoint, with Katorisar getting bigger in front of you. From this point, your climb takes a turn to the left. You see two big rocks at the end of the horizon to denote Kaldachni Pass.
Read More
The day starts with the climb to Kaldachni Pass. Trekkers have to cross this pass and then head towards Nandansar through a field of boulders.
There is no clearly marked trail from Neelsar to the pass. This climb to Kaldachni Pass will test the cardio and legs of the entire team. As you keep gaining altitude, keep looking back at the campsite location and the lakes. With every turn, the colors of these lakes change.
The ascent takes about an hour to reach the viewpoint, with Katorisar getting bigger in front of you. From this point, your climb takes a turn to the left. You see two big rocks at the end of the horizon to denote Kaldachni Pass.
Take a few minutes of rest and hydrate yourself well. The next ascent takes you along the side of the slope of the mountain. Along with the vastness and the grand views, do keep your eyes open on the ground when trekking as well. You will be surprised to see tiny insects springing above, beetles wriggling around, and even a few pink grasshoppers hopping!
With minimum breaks, it takes another hour to reach the top of the pass.
The view from Kaldachni Pass is mesmerizing. You have five lakes behind you in 180 degrees, while in front you have the lakes of Nandansar and Kaldachni. This view of the seven alpine lakes from the top is worth all the effort.
If you are lucky with the drama of the clouds and sun, then you are in for a treat. Drop your backpacks and spend about half an hour here. Nandansar is just in front of you, and the descent starts next.
Towards the left of the trail is the moraine section. The mountainside has a lot of boulders and is a rocky section. And towards the right, is the view of the valley, meadows, and a flatter walk.
Soak into the views, click your photos, and then start your descent towards the lake of Kaldachni. Once you reach Kaldachni, the next challenge is the stretch of boulder field that you need to tackle. Be careful with your footing. Stepping with confidence and being nimble helps in tackling this stretch.
Nandansar is hidden and cannot be seen before the climb. Nandansar is one of the biggest lakes in this region. It is about 1 km long. However, around 200 meters before the lake is a short climb to reach the lake.
There are many folklore stories about the seven lakes and them being considered as supernatural powers. So taking a dip in any of these lakes is not allowed. Many folks from the village do visit Nandansar to offer their prayers.
Trekkers will have to trek along the glades of Nandansar, filled with boulders and rocks. While you enjoy getting enthralled with the setting of the mountains surrounding the lake, keep your eyes fixed on where you are stepping and navigating.
As you reach the exit point of the lake, you will be stunned to see the change in the backdrop again. The colors in various shades of pink, purple, and maroon set amidst the stark and deserted mountains transport you to Spiti or a setting in Lahaul. Walking with disbelief, you need to descend towards the stream where you will be camping in this same valley the next day.
Reach down towards the stream and find a spot where you can cross safely. From this spot, you have the final ascent for the day. It takes about 3 km of ascent to reach the lake of Chandansar. You will be camping on the other side of the lake, where you have a flowing water source for setting up the campsite.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Chandansar to Nandansar via Handusar
Trek distance: 9.2 km | Duration: 7-8 hours
Altitude loss: 12,923 ft to 12,313 ft via 13,330 ft
Trek gradient: Moderate-Difficult. Challenging section of reaching the top of the Khabi ki Gali pass and descending through the same trail.
The day starts with a climb to the second pass of the trek, Khabi ki Gali. Even though this pass is much shorter compared to the previous day, the pass crossing itself will be more challenging. Trekkers will have to tackle boulders to reach the pass and go towards Laksukhsar. During the beginning of the season, you can expect patches of snow or the pass to be covered with snow.
The good news is that you don't have to carry your entire backpack with you today. Take your daypack with all the essentials since you will be returning from Handusar and pick up your backpack to descend towards Nandansar on the return journey.
You can divide the pass crossing into two sections. The initial section is fairly easy through the trail, going through loose mud and gravel. However, you can still get a decent grip and push forward. It takes about 20 minutes to complete this. Once you are done with this section, you arrive at a flatish area with unique formations on the land. Have your eyes on the lookout near the cliffs on your left. A flock of Griffons keeps swaying and swooping in circles.
Read More
The day starts with a climb to the second pass of the trek, Khabi ki Gali. Even though this pass is much shorter compared to the previous day, the pass crossing itself will be more challenging. Trekkers will have to tackle boulders to reach the pass and go towards Laksukhsar. During the beginning of the season, you can expect patches of snow or the pass to be covered with snow.
The good news is that you don't have to carry your entire backpack with you today. Take your daypack with all the essentials since you will be returning from Handusar and pick up your backpack to descend towards Nandansar on the return journey.
You can divide the pass crossing into two sections. The initial section is fairly easy through the trail, going through loose mud and gravel. However, you can still get a decent grip and push forward. It takes about 20 minutes to complete this. Once you are done with this section, you arrive at a flatish area with unique formations on the land. Have your eyes on the lookout near the cliffs on your left. A flock of Griffons keeps swaying and swooping in circles.
The next section of the trail will be challenging. With a consistent pace, you should be able to climb to the top of the pass in about an hour’s time. There is no marked trail, and the team will have to make their own trail through big boulders and loose rocks. Try not to stop for too long or take multiple breaks.
Khabi Ki Gali is at around 13,330 feet and is a flat pass. Once you reach the pass, all your efforts will be rewarded with the view of Laksukhsar, which is in the shape of the number 8. A huge lake right in front of you, glittering with different shades of blue. It changes from oceanic blue to teal, aquamarine, and turquoise. Colors you would not have even imagined. Take your break here by looking at this beauty while you reflect on being one of the few in the world to witness something like this.
Once you are done spending good time, you next start noticing another lake. This would be Handusar. Reaching the tip of Handusar is about 2 km and takes about an hour. By this time, you have already seen 10 alpine lakes.
During our exploration, we found two more lakes close by - Baranisar and Sonasar. However, exploring this will require at least 4-5 hours and cannot be included in the itinerary. You can plan this if you are doing the trek on your own.
Fun fact: There are a couple of passes from Handusar towards Byad via Sarota. One takes you through Bagsar, which is the biggest lake in this entire region, while the other pass is known as Handu ki Gali. Both of these passes are risky and very difficult to attempt.
Once you are done exploring Handusar, you can now plan your return, taking the same trail to Chandansar and then finally heading down towards the valley of Nandansar to camp for the night. Do not miss coming out of your tents in the night to witness the Milky Way in full glory.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Trek from Nandansar to Peer Ki Gali. Drive to Srinagar
Trek distance: 16 km | Duration: 8 hours
Altitude loss: 10,664 ft to 9,368 ft
This is your last day of the trek. The trek starts by following the valley where we are camping and then taking the ascent towards the left flank of the mountain. The climb from the campsite to the pass involves gaining an altitude of 1,135 feet and covering a distance of 2.7 km in total.
When you reach about a kilometer and a half, you see a small lake called Kalasar. From here, the trail is a rolling terrain of gradual ascent and descent.
The ascent from the base gets steeper towards the pass. However, the trail is fairly well laid out through most of the section and easy for the team to manage compared to the previous two days.
Read More
This is your last day of the trek. The trek starts by following the valley where we are camping and then taking the ascent towards the left flank of the mountain. The climb from the campsite to the pass involves gaining an altitude of 1,135 feet and covering a distance of 2.7 km in total.
When you reach about a kilometer and a half, you see a small lake called Kalasar. From here, the trail is a rolling terrain of gradual ascent and descent.
The ascent from the base gets steeper towards the pass. However, the trail is fairly well laid out through most of the section and easy for the team to manage compared to the previous two days.
Your right side is a complete open section, while the left side is the mountain side as you traverse the ledge. As you keep ascending, do look back and see the view of the Nandansar Valley and the mountains towering near Nandansar. Slowly, you approach the top and go towards the other side of the mountain.
The descent from the pass to Peer Ki Gali will be a combination of meadows and a few sections along the ledge of the mountain. It is a beautiful setting. The trail now starts with the meadow until you reach a small stream crossing with a bit of boulders to cross. You can expect to negotiate through a bit of snow in this section during the beginning of July and the start of the season.
As you keep trekking further through the meadows, your eyes start noticing Dhoks and civilization coming closer with electric poles and wires in the air. You are now very close to Peer Ki Gali, where you meet the roadhead and the point where you can take your vehicle.
You are expected to reach Srinagar by 8 pm. So plan to take a flight the next day, preferably in the afternoon, to account for any delay or to give yourself enough buffer. The cost will be Rs 7,000 per cab (5-6 Seater)
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult Is Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate - Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 48.3 km in six trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 7,741 ft (5,986 ft to 13,727 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents, and boulder sections. Several difficult sections on this trek require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
The trek involves long trekking days. You trek for over 7-8 hours almost every single day on this trek. This tests your stamina and preparedness.
The first day of your trek climbs steeply all the way from Chandimarh to Thera Campsite. It is about 6-7 hours of continuous ascent with an altitude gain of almost 3,500 ft in a single day.
On the third day, the ascent towards Bayad Meadows is short but steep. It tests your stamina.
On the way from Neelsar to Chandansar, you need to cross the Kaldachni Pass. The ascent is steep. The descent on the other side also involves hopping over an extensive boulder section before you reach Chandansar.
You then need to cross the Khabi ki Gali Pass immediately on the next day after Kaldachni. This is even more challenging than the Kaldachni Pass. Not only is the ascent and descent difficult, there is no marked trail and you trek over big boulders and loose rocks throughout.
You also cross the Peer Ki Gali pass on Day 7 of your trek. It also involves tricky ascents and descents. Difficulty wise, it is similar to Kaldachni but feels easier after you have experienced the gruelling Khabi ki Gali.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
The Pir Panjal Lakes Trek is best done in monsoon. That’s when the meadows and the lakes are at their best. That being said, you also run a risk of facing heavy rain, which can significantly alter the dynamics of your trek.
Rain can flood the campsites or make the forest trails too slushy to walk safely on.
It also makes the bouldery sections slippery, making crossings like Khabi ki Gali extremely risky.
Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
On the first day of your trek, you gain more than 3000 ft in elevation. You start fairly low, around the 6000 ft mark and hit close to the 10,000 ft mark on the same day. Such rapid elevation gain makes you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountain Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
On the Pir Panjal Lakes trek, there are two possible exits. Depending on where you are on the trek, the best bet is to descend to either Chandimarh or Pir ki Galli.
Closest Hospital to the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is at Surankot. It is a sub-district hospital, 18 km from the base camp. If you need serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
Time your Trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to do the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek is from the end-June to start of September. It is the traditional monsoon season in the rest of the Indian subcontinent, but things are different in the Jammu and Kashmir Valley.
Jammu receives mild rainfall in monsoon. Not at all like in Himachal Pradesh or Uttarakhand. That's because of the Pir Panjal range which prevents most rain clouds from reaching the valley.
It’s a boon because it makes for a comfortable trekking experience. In all the other seasons, it’s too cold to trek, the trail and the meadows are buried under snow for the most part.
But even if we look at just one season, the Pir Panjal Lakestrek changes appearance and colour throughout - June, July, August and September.
Pir Panjal Lakes Trek between end-June and mid-July
Day time temperature: Between 19 °C and 24 °C | Night time temperature: Between 3 °C and 5 °C
Presence of snow: Trekking opens on the Pir Panjal Lakes trail in the mid of June. Until then the upper reaches are under heavy snow. The lower meadows open earlier.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
When you trek in end of June and early July, you can expect to see remnants of snow by the highest lake on the trek - Nandansar. You may even see melting ice floating in the lake. This setting offers a fleeting glimpse of what the landscape looks like for the rest of the year - buried under snow, punctuated with frozen lakes. Sometimes, even if it’s not the best phase to complete the trek, the sight is spellbinding.
Pir Panjal Lakes Trek from mid-July to the start of Sept
Day time temperature: Between 20 °C and 25 °C | Night time temperature: Between 2 °C and 4 °C
Presence of snow: Now, the snow has almost melted. And the trail is carpeted with bright green meadows, which are in contrast with the rugged, grey mountains rising at the fringes. The best part is, that these meadows are densely dotted with so many wildflowers! Rains -- more like evening showers -- pick up during this time.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
After mid-July, the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek starts revealing itself in full glory.
You experience this beauty, especially in the meadows, as you trek over tiny flowers of colors ranging from violet, and purple to yellow and white.
Frozen chunks of the alpine lakes have melted by now. Waters of Pir Panjal Lake are deep blue. Look at these lakes from the vantage point, it has this signature royal-blue shade that you see in most of the Kashmir treks’ photos.
Cold sets in as the season progresses to the end of August and the start of September. The evening showers become frequent. But when the clouds part during this time of the year, you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes, especially Nandansar and Laksukhsar.
You will also see a change in the colour of the meadows. They turn golden brown.
The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers wilt too. And yet, there’s a beauty to this change of tone.
You can do this trek until the start of September. So, it’s doable. Post mid of September, it may not be the most comfortable time, given the cold temperatures.After mid-July, the Pir Panjal Lakes trek starts revealing itself in full glory.
How To Reach Pir Panjal Lakes Basecamp
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
It is great to see you going on the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek, one of the most beautiful treks in India. While it is a great trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly.
Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
There are two ways to reach Behrangala, the base of the trek - either from Srinagar or from Jammu.
Traveling from Srinagar is a better option.
Indiahikes pick-up is also arranged from Srinagar. So, if you are choosing our pick up, then you will have to reach Srinagar on your own.
Planning your onward flight/train journey:
If you are traveling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to Srinagar.
Fly directly to Srinagar
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar or even better if you can head towards Behrangala.
If you are taking the pickup through Indiahikes, then your Experience Coordinator will share the details a week prior to your trek date.
However, if you intend to take an adventure of traveling on your own, then you can go through the details given below:
From Lal Chowk, Srinagar there are frequent shared taxis available to Poonch. You will have to get down at Behrangala on the way. It costs Rs 800 per person.
Reaching Behrangala from Jammu
Reach Jammu a day before the start date of your trek.
There are shared Taxis from Jammu, from the City land Travel Stand to Poonch. The cost per person is ₹800 per person.
From Poonch, you will have to take another shared taxi to reach Behramgala. However this is a much longer route and can take about 6-8 hrs to reach Behramgala.
Planning your hotel/stay
Hotel Options at Srinagar
Hotel Chinar Inn is one option. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Royal Athena Houseboats is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Alhamra Retreats is a guest house with good facilities available.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
Contact Number: +91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
Other hotel options that are close to the pick-up point:
Hotel Care is just next to our Base, the pick-up location of the trek. Hotel Adlife and Hotel Centre Point are two other recommendations
Hotel Options at Jammu
Hotel Lords Inn is one of the options where you can stay in Jammu. You can easily find other options online. But make sure you book a hotel near to the Taxi Stand.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What To Pack For Your Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
Things to take
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
How long is the Pir Panjal Lakes trek? expand accordion
The Pir Panjal LakesTrek is close to 50 km long.
On this trek you will gain an altitude of over 7,300 ft in total over a period of 6 days to have an enjoyable experience.
The trail mostly follows the section of forests, clearings, then into the alpine meadows and stunning lakes.
Is it safe to trek in Poonch? expand accordion
Yes, it is safe to trek in Kashmir. Talking about Poonch, while the trek remains untouched during times of unrest, getting to the base camp or onto the trail might raise concerns in times of unrest.
So, here are certain pointers to keep in mind when you are travelling from Srinagar to Chandimarh:
If you’re staying overnight at Srinagar, stay in touristy areas like Dal Lake or Lal Chowk.
Blend in with the crowd in terms of dressing and behaviour.
Avoid going to downtown areas. Stick to tourist spaces as they tend to be safer and well-protected during times of unrest
Don’t panic if there is a curfew. Keep calm and wait for it to pass.
Where is the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek? expand accordion
The Pir Panjal Lakes trek is situated in the Poonch Region of Jammu. The trek starts from a small village called Chandimarh near Behrangala, a picturesque hamlet, which is 60 km before Poonch.
How difficult is the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek? expand accordion
The Pir Panjal Lakes Trek, which climbs to almost 13,330 ft, is rated as 'Moderate-Difficult' . This is because even though the highest altitude is not too high, you gain this altitude pretty quickly.
Each day, you gain an altitude of about 2,500 ft - 3,000 ft. This is not easy. You gain this altitude in a relatively shorter distance. That means it’s quite a climb on each day of the trek.
A moderate rating refers to marginally longer trekking days with a few steep climbs (example: climb to Nandansar or Laksukhsar). This makes it a notch more difficult than the easy-moderate treks.
How fit do I need to be for Pir Panjal Lakes Trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Pir Panjal Lakes trek requires a really good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 32 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 25 km a week or 100 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Pir Panjal Lakes trek? expand accordion
You will get mobile connectivity of Airtel, Jio and BSNL till the first campsite. After that the network is sketchy and almost non-existent.
Better to make sure you finish all your important telephone calls before starting your travel to the basecamp. Inform family members about poor connectivity during the trek.
Note : Prepaid SIM cards do not work in Kashmir.
As for electricity, you won’t have access to electricity or charging points anywhere during the trek.
Is Cloakroom facility available on this trek? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Is offloading available on the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek? expand accordion
Yes, offloading is available on the Pir Panjal Lakes Trek. The fee for this will be Rs 4,800 for the whole trek.
However, at Indiahikes, we strongly discourage offloading as it is not sustainable. Therefore, opt for offloading only if you have any medical conditions.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.