Rupin Pass Trek 2026 | India’s Most Sought-after Pass-Crossing Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Rupin Pass Trek
A surprise in scenery every hour
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have expert Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
The Rupin Waterfall: The waterfall reveals itself layer by layer as you climb. Then suddenly, the three-tier, 1,500 ft cascade opens up. Your campsite in the meadows at its base. It’s one of our 7 most iconic campsites .
Dense Forests of Fir: Just after you exit Jakha and before you arrive at the meadows of Saruwas Thatch, you trek through a forest of age-old conifers. Walking through those dense, tall pines that tower over you is a short-lived but charming experience.
Climbing to the Top of the Waterfall: If Lower Waterfall fills you with awe, climbing to its top is doubly thrilling. At Upper Waterfall, you see the perfectly U-Shaped Rupin Valley stretch out below you for miles.
The Famous Summit Climb Through Rupin Gully: Past Rata Pheri snowfields, the Rupin Gully rises ahead — a narrow chute between steep rocky walls. This is your climb to the summit.
Meadows of Sangla Kanda: After the raw, rocky pass crossing and descent to Ronti Gad, the landscape suddenly melts into soft grassy meadows at Sangla. It welcomes you to the grasslands that Kinnaur is famous for.
A surprise in scenery every hour
On the Rupin Pass trek, there is something different waiting for you every hour. We never see sceneries change so dramatically and so quickly on any other trek. No two sections on the Rupin Pass Trek feel the same. Yet, you are constantly in awe.
Surprises start right from the drive ahead of Rohru. Unpaved roads through forests open suddenly into expansive grasslands of the Chainsheel Valley. The drive itself is like doing a trek in fast-forward. You experience a rhododendron forest, then pop into expansive meadows while climbing to a height of 11,000 ft.
play video
Beyond Chainsheel, you descend to Jiskun. Your trek begins from this quaint Himachali village. On the very first day, you see the Jakha village hanging on the mountainside. It almost seems to defy gravity. And immediately beyond this village, you enter a thick forest of ancient fir. This forest ends abruptly, and you arrive suddenly at a huge snow bridge spanning the Rupin River. Then comes Saruwas Thatch and the sudden jaw-dropping view of the Rupin Waterfall. No matter what you have heard of it or how many times you have seen it in photos, its sheer 1,500 ft drop takes you by surprise. Ahead of Saruwas Thatch, the trail winds through the perfectly U-shaped glacial valley of Dhanderas Thatch and climb to Rata Pheri beyond the Upper Waterfall Camp. It is from here that you see the intimidating Rupin Gully for the first time.
Read more
expand overview
Beyond Chainsheel, you descend to Jiskun. Your trek begins from this quaint Himachali village. On the very first day, you see the Jakha village hanging on the mountainside. It almost seems to defy gravity. And immediately beyond this village, you enter a thick forest of ancient fir. This forest ends abruptly, and you arrive suddenly at a huge snow bridge spanning the Rupin River. Then comes Saruwas Thatch and the sudden jaw-dropping view of the Rupin Waterfall. No matter what you have heard of it or how many times you have seen it in photos, its sheer 1,500 ft drop takes you by surprise. Ahead of Saruwas Thatch, the trail winds through the perfectly U-shaped glacial valley of Dhanderas Thatch and climb to Rata Pheri beyond the Upper Waterfall Camp. It is from here that you see the intimidating Rupin Gully for the first time.
Climbing up to the 15,250 feet pass through this gully is an adventure you’ll never forget. On the other side of the pass, vast meadows of Sangla Kanda and the towering Kinnaur Kailash range bring the trek to a spectacular conclusion.
The blend of high-altitude challenges and mesmerising landscapes on the Rupin Pass trek is simply mind-boggling. The surprises start even before you reach Jiskun and do not end until the very last moments of the trek.
5 Things We Love About the Rupin Pass Trek
1) The Thrill of the Rupin Gully and Pass Crossing
The climb to the Rupin Pass through its narrow snow-laden gully is an unforgettable experience. The gully feels like a natural amphitheatre, with voices echoing sharply as you ascend its steep walls. The thrill of navigating this 200-metre ascent on a snowy flank is unmatched.
2) The First View of the Rupin Waterfall
The view of the waterfall opens up suddenly beyond a Rhododendron forest. You see the vast U-shaped Rupin glacial valley, stretching ahead. Steep green walls rise on either side like giant guards. Far away, at the head of the valley, the famous Rupin waterfall drops in three grand stages. It tumbles down from the heights as if pouring straight out of the clouds. The whole scene feels still, distant, and dreamlike—like stepping into a world untouched.
3) The Lower Waterfall Campsite
The lower waterfall campsite at Dhanderas Thatch is among the most picturesque campsites in the Himalayas. Nestled in a lush green glacial valley, it is surrounded by snow-patched cliffs. You have a front-row view of the magnificent Rupin waterfall cascading 1,500 feet from here. Spending a night here feels like a luxury amidst nature.
4) Changing Landscapes on the Trail
The Rupin Pass trail is a showcase of diverse terrains. From the vibrant rhododendron shrubs at Buras Kandi to the serene meadows of Saruwas Thatch, from the icy snowfields of Rata Pheri to the lush grasslands of Sangla Kanda. Each day brings something new, making the trek feel like a journey through multiple worlds.
5) The Meadows on the Kinnaur Side
After crossing the pass, the trail descends into the expansive meadows of Sangla Kanda, surrounded by towering peaks of the Kinnaur Kailash range. This final section of the trek is a glorious reward after days of raw mountain terrain.
The Rupin Pass trek is an orchestra of landscapes. Every twist and turn reveals something extraordinary. We have seen no other trek that offers such a unique blend of high-altitude adventure with stunning changes in scenery. This combination is so rare that it makes the Rupin Pass one of the top treks to do in India.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Rupin Pass : Take on the adventurous trek to Rupin Pass, with surprising changes in scenery greeting you every hour, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Jiskun: Experience the rich culture of Himachal by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Jiskun on Day 1 to breakfast at Sangla on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs. You will also be accompanied by special Technical Guides in tricky sections on the trek.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Rohru to Jiskun costs Rs 1650 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
On Day 7, the drop-off to Shimla from Sangla Kanda via Sangla costs Rs 2500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Even if you have not opted for transport, Indiahikes will arrange for your transfer from Sangla Kanda to the main roadhead at Sangla. You will need to pay Rs. 400/- on the spot for this. Beyond Sangla, you have to plan your return journey on your own if you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.4800 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Rupin Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Rupin Pass trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this map to get a visual cue of the Rupin Pass trek.
Day 1
Drive from Rohru to Jiskun (7,630 ft)
Drive distance: 85 km | Drive Duration: 5 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Shaktan Homestay Rohru | Pickup time: 8.00 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Jiskun
Transport will be organised from Shaktan Homestay Rohru at 8.00 am. The cost is Rs.1650/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Rohru to Jiskun . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Note: Your will receive your rentals and deposit your cloakroom luggage (if any) at Rohru itself.
Day 2
Trek from Jiskun to Jakha
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude gain: 7,630 ft to 8,755 ft
A lovely trek through remote, traditional villages of Himachal. The trek is a challenging one. Expect an hour’s descent followed by an hour’s steep ascent.
Day 3
Trek from Jakha to Saruwas Thatch
Trek Distance: 8.10 km | Trek duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude gain: 8755 ft to 10,770 ft
The day's trek starts off in a magnificent fir forest, one of the best forest sections on any trek. Further, the trail descends down into the valley, snaking on the banks of the Rupin River. Look out for beautiful dwarf rhododendrons after Udaknal, just as you approach the meadows of Saruwas Thatch.
Day 4
Trek from Saruwas Thatch to Dhanderas Thatch
Trek Distance: 3.5 km | Trek Duration: approx. 2 hours | Altitude gain: 10,770 ft to 11,700 ft
The shortest and perhaps the prettiest day of the trek, as you walk through small meadows, which are flower beds in summer, and beautifully colourful in autumn. The day's trek culminates at the iconic Dhanderas Thatch or Lower Waterfall campsite, where you camp at the base of the roaring 1,500 ft Rupin Waterfall.
Day 5
Trek from Dhanderas Thatch to Upper Waterfall
Trek Distance: 3 km | Trek Duration: 2-3 hours | Altitude gain: 11,700 ft to 13,275 ft
A quick and continuous ascent of the 1,500 ft Rupin Waterfall. In summer, expect to cross the waterfall on a snow bridge. In autumn, the trail is on rocky, and sometimes slippery terrain.
Day 6
Pass-crossing day: Upper Waterfall camp to Rupin Pass, further on to Ronti Gad
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 10-11 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 13,275 ft to 15,279 ft to 13,005 ft
The most adventurous day of your trek. You start from the Upper Waterfall Camp at around 3 am to make it to Rupin Pass by 7 or 8 am. The day's climb is hard, with steep ascents, through snowfields of rocky beds to the pass. The climb to the pass through the Rupin Gully is an iconic one. The descent and long walk to Rontigad is a true test of your endurance.
Day 7
Trek from Ronti Gad to Sangla Kanda. Drive to Sangla and then a drive to Shimla
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours | Altitude loss: 13,005 ft to 8,660 ft | Drop off point: Shimla ISBT | Drop Time: 11 pm
Rental and cloakroom returns will take place at Rampur on the way back to Shimla. If you are not opting for Indiahikes Transport, you still need to come to Rampur to collect your cloakroom or return your rental items.
Transport will be arranged for your return journey. The cost is Rs. 2500/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) for the transfer from Sangla Kanda to Shimla . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Even if you have not opted for transport, Indiahikes will arrange for your transfer from Sangla Kanda to the main roadhead at Sangla. You will need to pay Rs. 400/- on the spot for this transfer. Beyond Sangla, you have to plan your return journey on your own if you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete Day-Wise Guide With Photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Rohru to Jiskun
Duration: 5 hours drive
Altitude: 7,630 ft
Driving Distance: 85 km
Highlights: The drive to Jiskun involves crossing another high motorable pass, Chaainsheel Ghati. It is a rare mountain pass with massive grasslands. Many people do this as a separate trek altogether.
Instead of travelling from Dehradun to Dhaula, as per the traditional itinerary of the Rupin Pass trek, drive down from Rorhu to Jiskun. Start early from Shimla to get to Rohru. This route is much better and more scenic than the route to Dhaula.
Once you reach Rohru, where the road splits into two, one road goes to Janglik, the base camp of the Buran Ghati trek , and the other goes to Jiskun. The road to Jiskun goes through the beautiful and extremely scenic Chainsheel valley, which is a trek. ( Read why the drive through the Chainsheel Valley is so special )
Jiskun (7,630 ft) is the base for the Rupin Pass trek. High above the confluence of Nargani and Rupin, Jiskun is a village in two parts — lower Jiskun is now called Bawta. Jiskun is a good place to replenish your supplies if running short. There are local stores where you can stock up on your rice, wheat, sugar, spices and vegetables.
Read More
Instead of travelling from Dehradun to Dhaula, as per the traditional itinerary of the Rupin Pass trek, drive down from Rorhu to Jiskun. Start early from Shimla to get to Rohru. This route is much better and more scenic than the route to Dhaula.
Once you reach Rohru, where the road splits into two, one road goes to Janglik, the base camp of the Buran Ghati trek , and the other goes to Jiskun. The road to Jiskun goes through the beautiful and extremely scenic Chainsheel valley, which is a trek. ( Read why the drive through the Chainsheel Valley is so special )
Jiskun (7,630 ft) is the base for the Rupin Pass trek. High above the confluence of Nargani and Rupin, Jiskun is a village in two parts — lower Jiskun is now called Bawta. Jiskun is a good place to replenish your supplies if running short. There are local stores where you can stock up on your rice, wheat, sugar, spices and vegetables.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Jiskun to Jakha
Trek Duration: 4 hours Trek Distance: 4 km
Altitude gain: 7,630 ft to 8,755 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. An hour’s descent followed by an hour’s steep ascent, easing off till the fir forest. Steep descent for an hour followed by a gentle walk.
Highlights: A lovely trek through remote, traditional villages of Himachal. The deep dark forests and surrounding cliffs in this section are exceptional.
It is a 3½ km walk to Jakha, the highest and the last village on the Rupin pass trek. The trail out of Jiskun descends rapidly through a forest of deodars and walnut until it reaches an enchanting dark fold in the mountain. The fold’s upper reaches are dark and beyond human touch. Sight the remains of an old wooden bridge, almost hidden in the foliage. Below, at eye level, cross the new wooden bridge and crane your neck up to an eerie trail cut out of the rock face. So out of place and strange, you need moments to fathom how this was built and who made them.
The next one-hour climb to Jakha is through one of the best trekking trails. The scenery changes frequently. The trail initially zig-zags up on the ridgeline of the slope. Looking up from below, the trail appears ominous, reaching out to the sky. Once you start climbing it isn’t as monumental as it looks. The trail winds through an enchanting mixed forest – with a cliff face on the other side of the valley and whistling birds keeping you company on this site. Two-thirds of the way up, watch out for an equally broad trail that forks to your left. The other trail heads up to a village, Dhara, higher than Jakha. Stick to the trail that veers to the right.
The trail mostly climbs with one gentle walk in between. Jakha is a village completely enveloped in the ways of the Satsang. No meat is taken here. Avoid asking for any live animals or eating meat out of canned tins. The campsite is just above the village and doubles up as the children’s playground. An alternative campsite is the school courtyard itself.
Read More
It is a 3½ km walk to Jakha, the highest and the last village on the Rupin pass trek. The trail out of Jiskun descends rapidly through a forest of deodars and walnut until it reaches an enchanting dark fold in the mountain. The fold’s upper reaches are dark and beyond human touch. Sight the remains of an old wooden bridge, almost hidden in the foliage. Below, at eye level, cross the new wooden bridge and crane your neck up to an eerie trail cut out of the rock face. So out of place and strange, you need moments to fathom how this was built and who made them.
The next one-hour climb to Jakha is through one of the best trekking trails. The scenery changes frequently. The trail initially zig-zags up on the ridgeline of the slope. Looking up from below, the trail appears ominous, reaching out to the sky. Once you start climbing it isn’t as monumental as it looks. The trail winds through an enchanting mixed forest – with a cliff face on the other side of the valley and whistling birds keeping you company on this site. Two-thirds of the way up, watch out for an equally broad trail that forks to your left. The other trail heads up to a village, Dhara, higher than Jakha. Stick to the trail that veers to the right.
The trail mostly climbs with one gentle walk in between. Jakha is a village completely enveloped in the ways of the Satsang. No meat is taken here. Avoid asking for any live animals or eating meat out of canned tins. The campsite is just above the village and doubles up as the children’s playground. An alternative campsite is the school courtyard itself.
Jakha is the last stop to replenish your supplies and also to look for porters if you are running short of either. For the next few days of your trek, there is rarely a soul you’ll encounter, except shepherds tending to their flocks. This is how it is until you reach Sangla.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Jakha to Saruwas Thatch
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Altitude gain: 8755 ft to 10,770 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. The trail first ascends through fir forests, then rapidly descends down to the river. The trails eases out once you reach the river.
Highlights: The day's trek starts in a magnificent fir forest, one of the best forest sections on any trek. Further, the trail descends into the valley, snaking on the banks of the Rupin River. Look out for beautiful dwarf rhododendrons after Udaknal, just as you approach the meadows of Saruwas Thatch.
From Jakha, the well-defined trail ascends past the playground, passing through fields of the upper Jakha village before entering a magnificent fir forest. The entry to the forest is again so sudden that it is almost like someone has opened up a gate to let you in. The towering blue pines, each more than a few centuries old, take you through pristine and untouched surroundings. If you have a keen eye, catch a few maple trees within the pines, their golden orange leaves strewn amidst the pine cones.
On the other side of the trail, high above, cliffs hang over the V-shaped valley. In their crags, you notice the first patches of snow. An hour into the descending walk through the fir forest, and around a bend in the trail, is the biggest surprise of the day.
Stretched under is a vast snow bridge across the Rupin – the last thing that you would expect on the trail. With no trace of snow earlier and only glimpses of snow patches at higher ground, finding a snow bridge at a lower height will make you gasp.
Read More
From Jakha, the well-defined trail ascends past the playground, passing through fields of the upper Jakha village before entering a magnificent fir forest. The entry to the forest is again so sudden that it is almost like someone has opened up a gate to let you in. The towering blue pines, each more than a few centuries old, take you through pristine and untouched surroundings. If you have a keen eye, catch a few maple trees within the pines, their golden orange leaves strewn amidst the pine cones.
On the other side of the trail, high above, cliffs hang over the V-shaped valley. In their crags, you notice the first patches of snow. An hour into the descending walk through the fir forest, and around a bend in the trail, is the biggest surprise of the day.
Stretched under is a vast snow bridge across the Rupin – the last thing that you would expect on the trail. With no trace of snow earlier and only glimpses of snow patches at higher ground, finding a snow bridge at a lower height will make you gasp.
Run down to the snow bridge, put on your sunglasses, and for the first time on the trek feel the snow under your boots. The snow bridge is magnificent, with the Rupin carving out gaps and holes through it. Climb up to the higher reaches of the snow bridge, cross the Rupin and get onto the trail on the other side.
Note: During some blistering summer years the snow bridge melts with no chance of crossing. But don’t worry, the original trail, after a brief crossing of a tributary stream over wooden logs, continues further until you come to a wooden bridge that gets you to the other side of the Rupin.
The trail is no longer wide but a narrow foot has trodden path made by passing cattle and the shepherds. Follow the trail until you get to a wooden bridge mentioned above. Do not cross the bridge, but carry on with the Rupin on your left.
The bridge has its advantages though. Higher up, to the right of the bridge, is the first open grassland of Udakanal. Trekkers often camp here. But 2½ hrs out of Jakha is hardly the time to camp. Carry on further for more excitement stored for the day.
The scenery is rather different from what you have left behind. Most times the trail follows the course of the Rupin. Little tributaries from the upper reaches of the mountain flow into the Rupin, their bottom characterized by perennial snow patches. Often you are walking on the boulder-strewn river bed. The Rupin changes colour to a glorious icy blue – the water clear as crystal. No need to look for water to quench your thirst – just dip into the Rupin.
After an hour and half of intermittent boulder walk, and hopping over many cascading streams that feed the Rupin, the trail climbs and heads to the right, heading for a clump of a forest. Just before the trail enters their forest, you are met with a small open grassland. It is easily recognizable by a big rivulet that gushes out of the hillside – the water pure and clean. This is Burans Kandi, an excellent place to camp if you don’t mind the many cows that graze in the bounties of nature here.
Below, the Rupin thunders on. On the opposite bank, huge snow patches cover the gullies that once were part of glaciers feeding the river. A clump of forest starts just outside the camp area, and before you know it, you are in deep foliage.
The ascent is steep. The Rupin next to you and on your left climbs along rapidly in a series of mini waterfalls. The climb isn’t for long. Ten minutes later it evens out to leave you speechless. You are surrounded by thousands of Rhododendrons in full bloom. Where did they come from? They are in myriad colours – white, pink, and purple. They are everywhere. The Rhododendrons are the dwarf kind and rarely cross your chest. The trail weaves through the roots of the plants and some hang out on the Rupin – their flowers touching the clear waters of the river.
A small clearing and the Rhododendrons now adorn the slopes, the plants climbing a few thousand feet into the air. Walk a bit further to a bigger clearing and get your second surprise of the day. You are in a glade with the Rupin on your left forking to give away to a little island. The island has a carpet of green grass, lush with life. Right in the middle are a few Silver birch trees completing a picture of utmost serenity. Just as you thought that the glade was a pretty sight, for the first time on your trek you catch a glimpse of the famous Rupin waterfall in the far distance. You can’t help but gasp. The sight of the U-shaped valley and the Rupin climbing down from the clouds above will make you hold on to something just to steady yourself. Bet on excitement to set in as you relish the prospect of an amazing adventure in store.
The day’s walk is perhaps one of the best you’ll ever do. What’s amazing about Saruwas thatch is the sight of the Rupin gushing out of a gorge just ahead and to your left. While everyone’s seen a gorge from above, very few can claim to see a gorge at eye level. The heady sight behind you, walk along an even trail with snow patches on the mountainside to your right getting bigger and lower around you. Silver birches (Bhoj trees) are common, their barks peeling off to reveal the sacred Bhoj leaves. Collect a few as souvenirs. The legend goes that the epic Ramayana was written on these leaves. Climb to a bump on the trail – and let the big surprise of the day overcome you.
The climb through forest and shrubs makes way to a grand amphitheatre of green. You stand on the edge and enjoy front row seats of grand-scale production.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Saruwas Thatch to Dhanderas Thatch
Trek Duration: 2-3 hours
Altitude gain and loss: 10,770 ft to 11,700 ft
Difficulty: Easy. The walk from Saruwas Thatch to Danderas Thatch is a short, nearly flat walk. It is the easiest day of the trek.
Highlights: The shortest and perhaps the prettiest day of the trek, as you walk through small meadows, which are flower beds in summer, and a riot of colours in autumn. The day's trek culminates at the iconic Dhanderas Thatch or Lower Waterfall campsite, where you camp at the base of the roaring 1,500 ft Rupin Waterfall.
From Saruwas Thatch, as you peer from the lip of the U-Shaped valley you notice thousands of waterfalls cascading down its brown walls to meet the Rupin. In contrast, laid out in front of you are miles of green meadows, dotted with thousands of yellow marigolds. And in between the undulating meadows, the Rupin gracefully snakes its way down from its source. To top the scenery you have white snow patches lying scattered all along the edges of the meadows.
Climb down to the valley of yellow marigolds. Enjoy the gentle undulating walk to the first hurdle of your trek: a snow bridge over the Rupin. The slope of the snow bridge is much steeper than you can anticipate. Get a good grip and try to climb upward and higher. The steep bit isn’t for long and the flat of the snow bridge is a thrill to walk on. Crossing the snow bridge is easy and soon you are on the left bank of the Rupin.
The walk climbs gently through the lushness of the meadows. Every few steps tiny brooks gurgle under your boots as you hipety hop over them. Wildflowers sprout everywhere. This time they are blue, purple, green, yellow and white. The Rupin gently makes its way down the valley, an icy blue.
Read More
From Saruwas Thatch, as you peer from the lip of the U-Shaped valley you notice thousands of waterfalls cascading down its brown walls to meet the Rupin. In contrast, laid out in front of you are miles of green meadows, dotted with thousands of yellow marigolds. And in between the undulating meadows, the Rupin gracefully snakes its way down from its source. To top the scenery you have white snow patches lying scattered all along the edges of the meadows.
Climb down to the valley of yellow marigolds. Enjoy the gentle undulating walk to the first hurdle of your trek: a snow bridge over the Rupin. The slope of the snow bridge is much steeper than you can anticipate. Get a good grip and try to climb upward and higher. The steep bit isn’t for long and the flat of the snow bridge is a thrill to walk on. Crossing the snow bridge is easy and soon you are on the left bank of the Rupin.
The walk climbs gently through the lushness of the meadows. Every few steps tiny brooks gurgle under your boots as you hipety hop over them. Wildflowers sprout everywhere. This time they are blue, purple, green, yellow and white. The Rupin gently makes its way down the valley, an icy blue.
Cross a big boulder sitting on the edge of the river and find the Rupin fanning out into a wide river bed. Step on the river bed and walk along its edge and reach the base of another snow bridge, the biggest of all you have come across. Climb onto the snow bridge and cross the Rupin once more, bringing you to the base of a short climb that leads to a plateau above.
The climb is like inching along near the top of a roller coaster ride, waiting, anticipating the next view. It doesn’t disappoint you. You have arrived at the prettiest meadow of the trek, a site so beautiful, that you want to set up camp right there. And you do, for no Himalayan campsite can better the location. You are in the middle of the valley’s bowl. Ahead, the Rupin thunders down its three stages of the waterfall. Beyond the waterfall is the alpine Dhauladar Range looming large. On your two sides are the snowy valley walls with numerous waterfalls.
Water isn’t a problem. You just have to walk in any direction to find a crystal clear icy rivulet passing by. Pitch tent but sit out on the grandest landscaped lawn that nature can serve up. This is Dhanderas Thatch.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Dhanderas thatch to Upper Waterfall camp
Duration: 2-3 hours
Altitude gains: 11,700 ft to 13,275 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Continuously climbing trail, tricky around the snow patches at the base and top of the waterfall.
Highlights: In summer, expect to cross the waterfall on a snow bridge. In autumn, the trail is on rocky, and sometimes slippery terrain. The climb beside the waterfall is high on adventure, and reaching the snout of the waterfall and seeing the Dhanderas Thatch Waterfall from above is an experience on its own.
This is perhaps the most important day of your trek. The acclimatization climb to the top of the waterfall will help you immensely for a super successful climb to the Rupin pass.
From Dhanderas Thatch the altitude gain for the Rupin pass crossing is almost 2,500 ft. It is considerable and it is almost certain that many will suffer from altitude sickness. It makes better sense to climb up about 1,500 ft to the top of the waterfall, allowing your body to feel the effects of the altitude. Acclimatized somewhat, your body is better prepared for the gruelling climb to the Rupin pass the next day. Unlike most days, start your day at leisure. Let strength come back to your limbs. After breakfast, prepare for the climb to the top of the waterfall.
It is about a kilometre to the base of the waterfall from Dhanderas Thatch. On the way, you’ll get plenty of streams to hop and jump over and the wild display of yellow marigolds. Sometimes, the marigolds are laid out on a carpet and you just want to lie down on them.
Read More
This is perhaps the most important day of your trek. The acclimatization climb to the top of the waterfall will help you immensely for a super successful climb to the Rupin pass.
From Dhanderas Thatch the altitude gain for the Rupin pass crossing is almost 2,500 ft. It is considerable and it is almost certain that many will suffer from altitude sickness. It makes better sense to climb up about 1,500 ft to the top of the waterfall, allowing your body to feel the effects of the altitude. Acclimatized somewhat, your body is better prepared for the gruelling climb to the Rupin pass the next day. Unlike most days, start your day at leisure. Let strength come back to your limbs. After breakfast, prepare for the climb to the top of the waterfall.
It is about a kilometre to the base of the waterfall from Dhanderas Thatch. On the way, you’ll get plenty of streams to hop and jump over and the wild display of yellow marigolds. Sometimes, the marigolds are laid out on a carpet and you just want to lie down on them.
Things get serious when you reach the snow patch at the base of the waterfall. Avoid getting on the snow patch directly, but climb against its side on the boulder-strewn hillside until you come to the trail that cuts across the snow patch. It would make sense to have a stick or trekking pole for support. An ice axe is extremely helpful here. If the trail has already been made on the ice patch, send a prayer of thanks upwards. If the trail is barely visible, then start cutting steps with your boots or ice axe and slowly inch your way across the ice patch. This brings you to the top of the lower waterfall.
(Note: the step cutting is invaluable and can save your life from a slip or a fall)
It is another similar series of snow patch crossing and intermittent climbs before you are on to the big snow bridge over the Rupin. The sight is spectacular when you stand in the middle of the snow bridge and look up to the waterfall and watch the Rupin disappear under your feet hidden somewhere in the snow bridge. At this spot, you are over the middle waterfall.
Crossing over to the other side of the Rupin, it is a steep climb flanking the slopes that leads to the top of the waterfall. It is like climbing a series of ledges (and a minor snow patch) before getting down to the meadow at the top of the waterfall.
For the first time, you catch a view of what it is actually like at the top of the waterfall. It is quite unlike what you expected, keeping to the tradition of surprises of the Rupin trail. It is a wide meadow, reaching out to a flat bowl. Streams fed from the alpine snowy flank that converge on the bowl merge to form the Rupin.
Get down to the snout of the waterfall and sit on the edge. Dangle your legs over as you watch the Rupin crash down to the valley below. This is the top of the waterfall, a spot that has been in your sight the last two days.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Pass-crossing day: Upper Waterfall camp to Rupin Pass, further on to Ronti Gad
Duration: 9-10 hours
Altitude gain/loss: 13,275 ft to 15,279 ft to 13,005 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. Steep climb to the pass followed by a steep decent.
Highlights: The snowfields of Rata Pheri, which you enter within an hour from Upper Waterfall, the view of the Rupin pass in the distance, the climb through the gully, reaching Rupin Pass, taking in the view of the Kinnauri mountains, the snow slides from the pass, the grasslands of Rontigad
Steep climb to the pass followed by a sharp descent. This is the longest day of your trek and the most gruelling – and perhaps the most exciting too. It has enough adventure in-store to haunt your memories for a long time.
Start your day even before the sun up. Make sure you are out of the camp by 5:00 am. Carry breakfast with you. You’ll need the energy boost for your brief halt at the top of the pass.
The trail to Rati Pheri starts to the left of the meadow, climbing steeply along with a snow patch that looks a mile long. The climb gains altitude in bountiful. An hour into the climb, the ascent veers left, rounding the shoulder of a ridge and opens out to the camping grounds of Rati Pheri. Stop here for a breather and needed a drink of water (and also fill your bottles for the water source is limited until you cross the pass). Also, marvel at the change in scenery.
Read More
Steep climb to the pass followed by a sharp descent. This is the longest day of your trek and the most gruelling – and perhaps the most exciting too. It has enough adventure in-store to haunt your memories for a long time.
Start your day even before the sun up. Make sure you are out of the camp by 5:00 am. Carry breakfast with you. You’ll need the energy boost for your brief halt at the top of the pass.
The trail to Rati Pheri starts to the left of the meadow, climbing steeply along with a snow patch that looks a mile long. The climb gains altitude in bountiful. An hour into the climb, the ascent veers left, rounding the shoulder of a ridge and opens out to the camping grounds of Rati Pheri. Stop here for a breather and needed a drink of water (and also fill your bottles for the water source is limited until you cross the pass). Also, marvel at the change in scenery.
The Rupin valley that has been your companion for the last six days is lost to view, and the alpine Dhauladar range takes its place to your right and across the valley. It is now snowfields and alpine country till you get to the Rupin pass. This is a good time to put on your gaiters if you are carrying them.
From Rati Pheri, for the first time, across vast acres of snowfields, you get a glimpse of the Rupin pass, a tiny gap on the ridgeline of the Dhauladar. It looks so far away, that the thought of actually climbing through the gap does not register.
The slow walk over the undulating snowfields is endless. The snow makes the going difficult. At times you are going to slip and slide a few meters. At times your foot is going to sink in up to the thighs. But never is it going to get so difficult that it scares the life out of you. The scenery is singularly white.
There are no tracks on the snow and you need to keep a general sense of direction towards the Rupin pass gully. The good news is, there are hardly any chances of losing your way, and if you keep your sight on the pass and stick to your right, you will eventually, after an arduous trek of an hour and a half, come to the foot of the Rupin pass gully.
Rest for a while, collect your breath and prepare yourself for a thrilling adventurous climb through the Rupin pass gully.
A word of caution here: The trek through the gully is a short climb of about 200 meters. What makes the climb tricky is the loose stones and boulders (scree) that line its entire length. Add to it the initial climb leading to the gully over a steep snowy flank of the slope. Footholds on the icy slope are difficult to find and scrambling on all fours is sometimes the only option. An ice axe to cut steps is extremely handy here.
It is a good idea to let your guides and porters go in advance as they can mark out the route for you. In addition, they can give you precious hand-holds in some of the tricky stretches.
Climb in a single file and place your step in the hollow of the footstep in front. Watch for falling stones and rocks and gingerly make your way to the base of the gully.
The gully is a half tube cut out of the mountainside. Voices echo and travel sharply all over the gully. Conversations in a regular tone get amplified and it is fun listening to the travails of the trekkers as they make their way up the gully.
Crane your neck up to the mouth of the gully. A multitude of prayer flags flutters in the high winds that blow across. You are looking at the Rupin pass.
The climb through the gully is as thrilling as it gets. The rocky world is surreal. The anticipation of reaching the pass is exhilarating. It won’t take you more than fifteen to twenty minutes to get to the top of the pass.
The pass is a saddle on a ridgeline cutting its way through and across the Dhauladar range. For the first time you catch views of the Sangla side of the mountain – and you are again spun into the world of eternal surprises of the trek. The green open mountainscape is so much in stark contrast to the snow and alpine country behind you that it takes a while for the scenery to sink in.
The Rupin Pass
Hundreds of little stone cairns line up the ridgeline of the Rupin pass. Multicolour prayer flags flutter in the high winds of the pass. All around are the many branches of the Dhauladar range, like a spider’s legs branching off from the Rupin pass.
On the Sangla side, the descent is steep and the only place to camp is in the vast meadows below the snowline. Unlike the Rupin side, getting down to the snowline is quicker and steeper.
Step out of the pass and slide down the chutes of the snow. And if you think you can walk down the slope (like I did), that’s a big mistake. There’s only one way to get down and that’s on your bottom.
The slide down the slope is in three stages and each one is so much fun that you want to do it again. Grown-ups squeal and whoop in delight as the rush of sliding the slope brings to the surface the little ones in everyone. Within minutes you lose about 400 ft in altitude.
After the slides, the slope evens out to a more manageable trudge over snow. Numerous melting streams trickle out of the snow below your feet joining the now roaring feeder of the Rukti gad.
It takes slightly more than an hour to get to the edge of the snowline. Looking back, Rupin pass is high above, a speck in the ridgeline.
From the snowline, there is a sharp descent to the endless meadows that stretches to Sangla Kanda. At the base of the descent, there is a clear bountiful stream. Pitch camp at the even grounds that are around it. Remnant of old camping fire is another way to recognize the camping ground – otherwise indistinguishable from the surrounding. This is the camping grounds of Ronti Gad – another green paradise on earth.
You are again in meadows land – but the scenery is different. Towering, snow-capped mountains lean over the campsite. The visual is a blend of whites of the snow and the greens of the meadows. A just reward for a hard day’s trekking, starting at 13,100 ft, climbing to 15,380 ft and then dropping down to 13,100 ft. At Ronti Gad you are going to spend your coldest night of the trek, so dive into your sleeping bags early for a well-deserved rest.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 7: Ronti Gad to Sangla Kanda
Duration: 3 hours
Altitude loss: 13,005 ft to 8,660 ft
Difficulty: Moderate-difficult. You will be constantly descending today.
Highlights: The day's trek involves a steep descent to Sangla, where your trek ends. Despite being the last day, this is one of the most picturesque days as you trek through the lush grasslands of Sangla. The trek ends at the River Baspa, which marks the beginning of civilization after your 7-day trek .
The descent to Sangla is hell on your knees and toes but makes up for everything with its ever-changing scenery. For the first time, you get to view the Kinner Kailash range and the blue pines of the Baspa valley.
Start the day leisurely but not too late. The descent will make you lose height rapidly and it can get rather warm near Sangla (that’s all comparative with the chilling height of the Rupin Pass)
The trail out of the campsite is a shepherd’s trail that heads to the valley below. After days you will come across shepherds tending to their flocks. Multiple trails join your path and some go away from it. If you come to two trails that look alike and you want to make a choice, it doesn’t matter. All of them lead to Sangla Kanda. Only, avoid the trails that head down to the river.
Read More
The descent to Sangla is hell on your knees and toes but makes up for everything with its ever-changing scenery. For the first time, you get to view the Kinner Kailash range and the blue pines of the Baspa valley.
Start the day leisurely but not too late. The descent will make you lose height rapidly and it can get rather warm near Sangla (that’s all comparative with the chilling height of the Rupin Pass)
The trail out of the campsite is a shepherd’s trail that heads to the valley below. After days you will come across shepherds tending to their flocks. Multiple trails join your path and some go away from it. If you come to two trails that look alike and you want to make a choice, it doesn’t matter. All of them lead to Sangla Kanda. Only, avoid the trails that head down to the river.
After an hour and a half and a drop of over 1,500 ft, the trail leaves the narrow valley of the Ronti Gad, veers left and opens out to the valley overlooking the Rukti Gad. To the right, in the snowbound Nalgan pass, a gentle reminder of a trek for another day.
The meadows abound the entire slope of the mountains, the snow behind and out of sight. What takes your breath away is the sudden appearance of the Kinner Kailash range right in front. The sharp serrated edge of the range all over 20,000 ft overlooking the meadows of Sangla Kanda is enough to make you stand still, awed by the moment — that has now become an expected twist and turn of the Rupin pass trek plot.
Far below are the first signs of civilization – the lake of Sangla Kanda and the tiny settlement of the village. It takes another hour and a half to get to the village. The sharp descent would have taken a toll on your toes and knees – and the village is a good place to take a break. The villagers are warm and friendly and you can always get yourself a warm cup of tea while exchanging stories of your climb to the Rupin pass.
Many trails lead out of Sangla Kanda to Sangla. Ask a villager for directions or take any trail that turns right. Most trails would join the main trail that skirts its way around and below the lake. After days, you get below the tree line – and almost welcome it.
The mixed vegetation abruptly gives way to a forest of blue pines – the last of the surprises of the trek. The trail to Sangla is now entirely along with the Rukti Gad (about 500-700 ft below). The descent through the pines is refreshing and occasionally you come across the hectic activity of a road being built. The road is a feeder that in future would connect Sangla and Kanda – a much-needed infrastructure for the locals but a blob in the landscape for a trekker from the Rupin pass.
The trail is broad and descends rapidly to Sangla passing quaint wooden houses and step farms. The woods of the blue pine give way to apple orchards and more of civilization. Telephone lines, a resting place in the middle of the track, cell phone connectivity and you know Sangla is not too much further off.
Half an hour later and a sharp descent to the Baspa along with a school with children in uniform, you get to the bridge below the forest rest house. Cross the muddy waters of the Baspa, and look back one last time at the blue pines behind and above you – a symbol of a trek that is part of the best that the country can give you.
Footnote: From the bridge over the Baspa, it is a steep 20-minute climb to the motorable road at Sangla. There are many concrete lanes that you can take to get to the main road and some wind their way without seeming to go anywhere. Ask for directions to the bus stand, though the route is marked in paint.
At the bus stand, there are restaurants where you can eat and places to stay. Most of them are good and offer basic bed and bedding. Charges are reasonable and quite negotiable. The last bus to Shimla leaves at 5:00 pm and gets to Shimla at 3:00 am the following day.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Rupin Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate-Difficult
Suitable for Experienced Trekkers
You will cover a total of around 37 km in five trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 7,649 ft (7,630 ft to 15,279 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections. There are several difficult sections on this trek that require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
The trail runs alongside the Rupin River, leading to frequent river crossings. In May and June, you'll traverse massive snow bridges, while in September and October, shepherds set up makeshift log bridges. If no bridges exist, then you will have to hop on boulders or use ropes if required.
The climb to Upper Waterfall from Lower Waterfall is a very strenuous climb that tests your endurance. This is also an avalanche and rockfall-prone area.
The Rupin Gully, which leads you the pass from the Upper Waterfall Camp, is a very steep ascent. If you are doing the trek in Summer, you can expect snow, which makes this section even more challenging.
The descent from Rupin Pass to Ronti Gad is long and steep. It can be hard on your knees if you are not well-prepared.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can change the entire trek dynamic.
Since you are trekking along the Rupin river throughout, rain can easily make the trails too slushy to walk safely on. In the lower waterfall camp, where numerous streams gurgle down from the sides of the valley, heavy rain can flood the campsite.
Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut in the snow. In case of heavy snows, pass-crossing gets extremely difficult.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Although Rupin is a difficult trek in terms of terrain and climbs to well over 15,000 ft, the Indiahikes itinerary is designed to allow enough space for acclimatising. You do not gain more than 2000 ft in elevation on any day of the trek.
Yet, you must keep in mind that the Rupin Pass Trek ascends to an altitude of 15,279 ft above sea-level and at altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The Rupin Pass trek has two exits. One is just after Sewa village and before Jiskun . This exit takes you over the remote Chainsheel Pass and leads to Shimla via Rohru after a 14-hour drive. The second is from the end of the trek at Sangla. This is an 8-hour drive to Shimla.
If you need an exit from the Rupin Pass trek before the Upper Waterfall campsite, choose the exit between Jiskun and Sewa. If you are at Upper Waterfall, it is faster to cross the pass and exit onto Sangla. However, crossing the pass in an emergency involving sickness or injury is easier said than done.
Closest Hospital to the Rupin Pass Trek:
If you have not crossed the pass and you need medical attention, the Jiskun exit is your best bet. Get down to Jiskun in 1 or 2 days depending on your health condition. Hire a private car at Jiskun which can take you to Rohru. Rohru has a government hospital that can give basic medical attention. For advanced treatments, head to Shimla which is 100 km further away.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Rupin Pass Trek
Plan your trek accordingly
toggle accordion
The Rupin Pass trek climbs beyond 15,000 ft. Like any other classic high-altitude trek, Rupin Pass is open for trekking only for a few months in a year. There are mainly two seasons when you can do the Rupin pass trek - Summer and Autumn. During summer, the trek can be done from mid-May to the end of June. While in autumn it can be done from mid-September to mid-October. These are the best times to do the Rupin pass trek.
Rupin Pass in Summer (mid-May to end of June)
Day time: Between 13 °C and 17 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero at higher campsite
Presence of snow: You will find snow from the Lower Waterfall campsite in the month of May. During June, you can expect snow from Upper Waterfall.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Summer is traditionally the favourite time to trek to Rupin Pass. It's popular in summer because of the fantastic snow experience the trek offers.
Rupin Pass is one of those rare treks which has lots of snow bridges. Almost every summer, you will find your first snow bridge right after the forest section beyond Jakha, surprisingly, right below the forests . From here the snow sections start and go on in patches until Dhanderas Thatch.
The famous 3 stage Rupin Waterfall also has a massive snow bridge that you use to climb the waterfall. This snow bridge stays the whole summer.
Until the last week of May, the section of the trek from Dhanderas Thatch to Ronti Gad is mostly under snow cover. This makes it an exquisite snow experience.
The snowfields of Rata Pheri in May look no less than a white moonscape. The pass climb and the snow slides on the other side are also experiences to cherish during the summer months.
The first half of June is our favourite period to trek Rupin Pass. This is the time when we get a wonderful combination of greenery and snow. The snows have melted till the meadows of Dhanderas thatch.
The meadow is in resplendent green with wildflowers blooming. This along with the snow experience of the upper reaches takes the cake for us!
But do not lose heart if you trek the second half of June. The upper stretches from Rata Pheri to Ronti Gad are still under snow. The gully climb and the snow slides go on the whole of summer.
This setting changes in the next season of the Rupin Pass trek.
Rupin Pass in Autumn (September - October)
Day time: Between 12 °C and 16 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero to -4 to -5 °C at higher campsite
Presence of snow: You can expect frost at the campsite of Upper Waterfall. There are chances of snowfall at the Rupin Pass when weather goes bad.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
The autumn season brings in a whole new set of attractions on the Rupin Pass trek.
The monsoons are just fading and the entire valley from Jiskun has turned green. Hundreds of waterfalls appear out of nowhere all along the trail.
The meadows of Saruwas Thatch and Dhanderas Thatch are blooming with wildflowers.
As we move towards October, you’ll see the valley turning golden from the green that it was a few weeks ago. The snow is mostly missing in the Autumn season but the beauty and adventure of the trek don't let you feel the absence of snow.
Somewhere around the middle of October, the first snows of the season hit the pass. This makes trekking Rupin pass dangerous and difficult.
At Indiahikes, we wind up the autumn season by the mid of October.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Rupin Pass Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Jiskun is the base camp of the Rupin Pass trek. Jiskun is a small village in the Shimla District of Himachal Pradesh, about 85 kms by road from Rohru . The 5 hour drive from Rohru to Jiskun takes you over the Chainsheel Pass and winds along the Rupin River.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 8.00 am from Shaktan Homestay Rohru . Arrive in Rohru by Day Zero , which is one day before Day-1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day-1 of your trek is 25th May, book your tickets to reach Rohru by 24th May.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rohru:
Rohru does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rohru is to:
Fly to Delhi , take direct HRTC Bus from Delhi to Rohru
Fly to Delhi , take bus to Shimla , and take HRTC bus from Shimla to Rohru
Fly to Chandigarh Chandigarh, take direct HRTC bus to Rohru via Shimla
Flight Options to Reach Rohru:
Pro Tip: To reach Rohru on Day Zero, that is one day before the Day-1 of your trek, book your flight tickets two days in advance. That is, if 25th September is the Day 1 of your trek, book your flight for 23rd September to either Chandigarh or Delhi
How to plan your return journey from the Rupin Pass Trek:
Your trek ends at the Sangla Roadhead . From Sangla , Indiahikes will arrange transport back to Shimla. After you reach Shimla, you can retrace your journey back to Delhi or Chandigarh. But please keep the following things in mind before planning your return travel:
You will reach Shimla very late (close to 11 PM) on the last day of your trek. So, we recommend that you add a buffer day and plan your travel back to Delhi for the next day. This also safeguards your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
Account for a 14-15 hr journey from Shimla to Delhi. Plan your flight tickets out of Delhi accordingly.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Jiskun on your own:
Connectivity from Rohru to Jiskun is quite limited, with almost no public transport options available . Shared vehicles operate on this route, but their timings are unpredictable, making it hard to plan ahead without the latest updates.
The best way to reach Jiskun is to opt for the Indiahikes pickup for a smooth and hassle-free journey. But if you are traveling on your own, the only reliable option to reach Jiskun from Rohru is to book a private cab.
However, if you find any information on reliable public transport running on this route, please let us know at [email protected]
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Rupin Pass Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Rupin Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Rupin Pass Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Rupin Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Rupin Pass Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Is Rupin Pass Trek Difficult? expand accordion
Rupin Pass trek is graded as moderate-difficult.
The Rupin Pass takes you to a height of 15,279 ft. Trekking to 15,000+ ft brings its share of challenges. By that sheer altitude itself, it takes the trek to the moderate-difficult category. The route from Jiskun to Dhanderas Thatch is more or less straightforward. However, from Dhanderas Thatch onward is where the route gets challenging. In summers there are snow bridges to cross and vast snowfields of Rata Pheri to navigate before the steep ascent to Rupin gully.
The same sections during autumn might require setting up ropes or pulleys to cross as there are no snow bridges and river flows with a strong force. Moreover, irrespective of the season, the pass crossing is a difficult day that takes close to 10 hours from Upper Waterfall to Ronti Gad across Rata Pheri and Rupin Pass.
It is these factors that lead to us at Indiahikes rating this trek as a moderate-difficult trek. Therefore, planning your safety is one of the factors that are of utmost importance while trekking
Cardiovascular endurance – Target 5 km in 32 minutes before the start of the trek
On the Rupin Pass trek, you have to cover around 10 km on the undulating trail in 6 days. This requires a good amount of endurance. You can begin by jogging every day. Start slow and increase your pace every day. Swimming, cycling and stair climbing without too many breaks in between can help too.
To be prepared for a high altitude trek, you should have a combination of distance and speed targets .
Where is Rupin Pass trek? expand accordion
The Rupin Pass trek is close to the border of Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. The trek starts from a small village called Jiskun and after crossing the Rupin Pass ends at Sangla.
Jiskun is around 192 km from Shimla. It will take you close to 8 hours to cover this distance. You follow the route Shima - Kufri - Jubbal - Rohru - Jiskun.
How long is Rupin Pass trek? expand accordion
The Rupin Pass trek is around 37 km long. You cover this distance over 6 days. During the trek, you climb from 7,630 ft to 15,279 ft. It is not easy. This is why you need to prepare well for the Rupin Pass trek.
Target 5 km in 32 minutes before the start of the trek
On the Rupin Pass trek, you have to cover around 10 km on an undulating trail for 6 days. This requires a good amount of endurance. You can begin by jogging every day. Start slow and increase your pace every day. Swimming, cycling and stair climbing without too many breaks in between can help too.
To be prepared for a high-altitude trek, you should have a combination of distance and speed targets .
Are there cloakroom facilities available? Can I leave my laptop at basecamp? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs 200 per 10 kg bag. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar).
There's an option to leave excess luggage behind in Rohru. After the trek, your cloakroom luggage will be handed over to you in Rampur.
We would also suggest avoiding carrying a laptop and other expensive gadgets if you have registered for a trek.
Are there charging points in the campsites? expand accordion
There are no charging points at the base camp or the campsites. We suggest that you bring your devices fully charged. You may also carry power banks as a backup.
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Moderate-Difficult treks, you’ll walk for about 8-12 km each day. Gradual to steep ascents and descents are common on all days. Expect to reach high altitudes of 15,000+ ft. There will also be technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks), which our technical teams will help you navigate.
If you are above the age of 62 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advice you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are not able to carry your own backpack, you can offload your backpack. The cost of offloading on the Rupin Pass trek is Rs 4,800 for the trek. Find details about the offloading process here.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.