# Gurez Valley - Complete Trek Information
Gurez Valley - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
A DIY trek, as the name suggests, is a Do-It-Yourself trek. You manage everything — you set up camp where you want to, you cook your own meals, you navigate the trail using GPS maps, and you trek at your own pace.
A Trek Leader from Indiahikes accompanies you on the trek. Their job is to look into your safety. They carry all emergency safety equipment, including life-saving drugs. If you find it challenging to navigate the trail, the Trek Leader steps in.
The Trek Leader is as much a part of the DIY trek as the others. It is true that the Trek Leader is in charge of the team, but their role is more consultative than authoritative.

# How Difficult is the Gurez Valley Trek What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
How Difficult is the Gurez Valley Trek What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety

# How Difficult is the Gurez Valley Trek
How Difficult is the Gurez Valley Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety

# Best Time to do the Gurez Valley Trek
Best Time to do the Gurez Valley Trek
DAY 1
DAY 2
DAY 3
DAY 4
DAY 5
DAY 6
DAY 7
Time your trek well

# What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ? Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ? Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek

# What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
141 km
You will cover a total of around 37.6 km in five trekking days, reaching a highest altitude of over 13,000 ft above sea level. Although it is rated as a moderate trek, there are ascents, descents, and boulder sections that require proper fitness and mental preparation.
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
5,220 ft to 7,870 ft via 11,550 ft
. That’s the only time you can trek here. In all the other seasons, Kashmir trails are buried under snow.
The best time to be on this trek is from the
beginning of July to the middle of September

# Stay Options for Gurez Valley Trek Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
Stay Options for Gurez Valley Trek Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend

# Stay Options for Gurez Valley Trek
Stay Options for Gurez Valley Trek
Suitable for Fit Beginners
It is great to see you going on the Gurez Valley Trek. While it is an excellent trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly.
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend

# What to Pack for Your Trek
What to Pack for Your Trek
This season brings up many questions in the mind of a trekker. Primarily because it is monsoon in the rest of the country, will it rain heavily on the trek? Well, most trails in Uttarakhand are shut during this time. But things are different in Kashmir.
The Terrain:
The trek of Gurez Valley starts from Dawar, one of the lesser-known hill stations of Kashmir. To reach Dawar, the best way to reach will be to use a shared taxi or private vehicle.
Things you must take on the trek
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
The trek involves long days of trekking. There are multiple days that are almost 10 kms long. On the last day, you trek for 16 kms at a stretch. This requires good stamina and preparation.

# How to Get Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
How to Get Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek

# How to Get Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
How to Get Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
If you observe the map, you see the Pir Panjal range separating Kashmir from the rest of the Indian subcontinent. This range is 288 km long and 40-50 km wide. It blocks most rain clouds from crossing over into the Kashmir Valley.
If you are taking the pickup through Indiahikes, your Experience Coordinator will share the details a week before your trek date. The cost from Srinagar to Dawar comes to Rs 6,000 per vehicle.
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
You start traversing boulder sections on the way to your Khaari campsite. Beyond Khaari, the actual boulder fields begin and you trek through it continuously for over 3 kms. This requires strong legs and careful footing.
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.

# Frequently Asked Questions
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
Packing Checklist
Mandatory Documents
Personal Medical Kit
This divide determines the nature of precipitation and the vegetation in this rainshadow area. All of which stand very different from the rest of the country.
If you are trekking alone, you get a shared taxi from Mundi Bus Stand, Srinagar, to Bandipora. It takes about 2 hours to reach Bandipora and costs you Rs 120.
The descent to Patalwansar Lakes from Khari can be tricky. The next day, on your way to Dison, you need to climb back up the same boulder fields. These will test your preparation.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.

# Packing Checklist
Packing Checklist
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
The initial descent to Dwar from Dison is steep and along a narrow, rocky ledge. Although this section is not too long, it can be tricky.
July to September is peak summer, transitioning to Autumn and the best time to trek in Kashmir. The landscape comes alive during this window. And even though the window is tight, you notice the landscape changing colour and texture as the months proceed.
From Bandipora to Dawar, take another shared taxi. It takes about 4 hours to reach Dawar. It costs Rs 300 for an Innova and Rs 500 for Bolero. Note that no taxi services are available from Bandipora post 2 PM. Also, you’re not allowed to stay there due to military reasons. So plan your travel accordingly.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Study this map to know this trek at a glance
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc., wherever required.
What does an Indiahikes Assisted DIY trek mean? collapse accordion

# What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute?
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute?
Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
141 km |
6-7 hours |
7 am.
Drive Distance:
Drive Duration:
Pick-u time-
Pick-up point for Indiahikes trekkers:
Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, near Flourmill, Srinagar
Weather:
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.

# How many lakes will I see on the Gurez Valley?
How many lakes will I see on the Gurez Valley?
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 2 °C and 7 °C
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? collapse accordion

# 1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0
Please note: You arrive at Sheikh Feroze on
The transport cost is Rs 6000 per vehicle and must be paid directly to the driver. The vehicle will be non-AC.
to collect rentals and submit cloakroom at 6 pm.
The Gurez Valley Trek is ideal for monsoons because it sits in a rainshadow region. However, at higher altitudes, sudden rains and snows are always a distinct possibility.
Gurez (Dawar) is about 140 km north from Srinagar taking around 6-7 hours for the entire journey.

# How long is the Gurez Valley Trek?
How long is the Gurez Valley Trek?
Presence of snow: Snow remains at higher altitudes. But the trek is more or less accessible. As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month. The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
A Trek Leader from Indiahikes accompanies you on the trek. Their job is to look into your safety. They carry all emergency safety equipment, including life-saving drugs.
Click here
Day 0: Book your
If you reach in the morning, you can think about travelling to Dawar on the same day instead of staying at Srinagar.
air ticket to Srinagar.
for more explanation.
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Rainfall or snowfall lasting hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood campsites or make the trails too slushy to walk safely on, while snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.

# Is the Gurez Valley Safe?
Is the Gurez Valley Safe?
How long is the Gurez Valley Trek? collapse accordion
How many lakes will I see on the Gurez Valley? collapse accordion
The travel to Gurez can be divided into two parts. 1) The upward travel to Razdan Pass at 11,550 ft. 2) The second leg of your travel will be from Razdan Pass down to the base town of Dawar at 7,870 ft.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
to know more about this trek.
Is the Gurez Valley Safe? collapse accordion

# How fit do I need to be for Gurez Valley Trek?
How fit do I need to be for Gurez Valley Trek?
On the Gurez Valley Trek, you cover around 36 km in 5 days (6 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 7,870 ft in Srinagar to Patalwansar II lake at 13,188 ft. You’ll trek long distances, around 7 km on average, every day.

# Trek from Dawar to Dison
Trek from Dawar to Dison
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
On the Gurez Valley Trek, you'll come across 2 pristine alpine lakes. They are turquoise blue. You’ll get to witness all these lakes on Day 4 at almost 13,188 ft and youll even be camping next to one!
Alhamra Retreats
Hotel Chinar Inn
Note: Some stay options if you have an extra day at Srinagar:
Royal Athena Houseboats
and
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. In conjunction with the Trek Leader, our technical team constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
5 km |
5-6 hours |
7,870 ft to 10,340 ft
Altitude gain:
Trek Distance:
Trek Duration:
A lot of poeple are enquiring about the safety of The Gurez Valley trek. We want to say that this trail is completely safe even though its next to POK. It is in the remote regions of Kashmir, away from the hotbed of turmoil. Theres also high military presence around the trek. So the trekking trail itself is completely safe.

# I’m more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek?
I’m more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek?
This is peak summer in Kashmir. The upper reaches of the trek start crawling out of the snow blanket in July. It’s warm, and you experience light evening showers during this month.
First section of the drive takes you through Srinagar city and the city outskirts. The drive is about an hour away. Once you cross the city, you have the Kashmir valley opening up. The drive becomes extremely picturesque hereone. You drive through crisp pin forests, valleys and mountain passes. It is anything unlike Kashmir. The drive ends at the beautiful Dawar Valley on your right.

# Trek from Dison to Khaari via Dawar heights
Trek from Dison to Khaari via Dawar heights
play video
Book a return
Day 8:
flight
ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 7.

# Can I offload on this trek?
Can I offload on this trek?
Patalwansar I
10,340 ft to 11,300 ft via 11,722 ft
6 hours |
8 km |
The trail to Gurez Valley opens in the first week of July. Snow remains at higher altitudes. But the trek is more or less accessible.
How fit do I need to be for Gurez Valley Trek? collapse accordion
Patalwansar II
Can I offload on this trek? collapse accordion

# Trek from Khaari to Patalwansar I Lake via Patalwansar II
Trek from Khaari to Patalwansar I Lake via Patalwansar II
However, political unrest, curfews and clampdowns have occurred in the past during our trekking season. We have tackled these efficiently, never compromising on the safety of trekkers. We travel during non-curfew hours and take measures to safely pick up or drop trekkers at the airport.
Note
A Himalayan trek like Gurez Valley requires a good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
As the snow melts, colourful flowers start appearing on the meadows. You see flowers throughout the Kashmir trekking season. But the colours of these flowers vary based on the month.
On the first day of your trek, you gain almost 3000 ft in elevation over just 5 km of trekking. You hit the 10,000 ft mark on this day itself. Such rapid elevation gain makes you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
Can I keep extra luggage at the basecamp? collapse accordion
11,300 ft to 12,650 ft via 12,795 ft
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek.
Expect to reach Dawar by 4pm.
I’m more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? collapse accordion
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.

# Trek from Patalwansar I to Dison
Trek from Patalwansar I to Dison
Note: If you are travelling in Kashmir before Day 1, please ensure you reach the campsite well before time.
5 km in 35 minutes
Run at least
before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 20 km a week or 80 km in a month. It's a
if you wish to trek with us
minimum mandatory requirement
We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
Yes, you can!
Acute Mountain Sickness
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountain Sickness, HAPE and HACE
are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
12 km |
12,650 ft to 10,340 ft
7 hours |
Altitude loss:
Sometimes, we call off treks if the situation is too serious (for instance when Burhan Wani was shot and the political situation in Kashmir was out of control). Calling off a trek is a worst-case scenario and has not occurred too many times in the past.
The landscape has lush green meadows punctuated with alpine lakes that are still frozen in parts.
On your return, your trek ends in Dawar. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar.
You reach Srinagar between 5 and 6 pm.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.

# Trek from Dison to Dawar. Drive to Srinagar
Trek from Dison to Dawar. Drive to Srinagar
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Day
go to next day
OR
3 hours
4.6 km |

# Gurez Valley from mid-July to third week of August
Gurez Valley from mid-July to third week of August
Keep in mind that if we are running the Bodpathri Meadows Trek, you can assume that it is safe. We would not compromise on anyone’s safety and run it during dangerous times.

# 2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
10,340 ft to 5,220 ft
. Aim to
22 km in 60 minutes
Alternatively, cycle for at least
cycle 110 km a week
or 440 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.

# Fitness Target
Fitness Target
Please note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Please note:
The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on weather conditions and your route. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to either Srinagar.
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, the
day before
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature : Between 4 °C and 8 °C
To do the Gurez Valley Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
Presence of snow: Most snow has melted by now. Frozen chunks of ice in Patalwansar I & II would have melted.
Emergency Exits:
On the Gurez Valley Trek, the only exit point is Dawar. So you need to be alert and watch out for symptoms of AMS closely.

# Buffer Day
Buffer Day
There are two options.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
All your travel plans include a buffer day to accommodate bad weather on the trek/political instability. This depends entirely on the circumstances of the trek and the situation in Kashmir. The buffer day is mandatory to keep in your itinerary.
After mid-July, a robust trekking season begins in Gurez Valley. Expect bright sunny mornings with some evening showers. Rains are still mild compared to rains in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.

# Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
Closest Hospital to the Gurez Valley Trek:
Given below is a list of all the gear you need for the Gurez Valley trek:
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar.
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is at Dawar. You have a medical facility to handle emergencies. For any major emergencies, Bandipora is the best place for getting any treatment.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs 1,800 per day +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
. It costs less than Rs 2000 for the entire trek. We highly recommend renting gear since it is both more affordable and environmentally friendly.
Crosstrek Rental Store
If you don’t have certain items,
by Indiahikes
you can rent high-quality gear like trekking shoes, backpacks, and jackets from the
The trail is carpeted with green meadows everywhere. The best part is that these meadows are densely dotted with wildflowers!

# Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. Many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
If you require serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.

# Gurez Valley from Aug-end to second week of September
Gurez Valley from Aug-end to second week of September
, you must bring your personal medical kit as well. We are already equipped with BP machines, oximeters and canned oxygen, but your medical kit is for quick access to you, especially while travelling.
Additionally, you’ll notice a small medical kit in the list. While our trek leaders carry medical kits with 17 medicines including
life-saving drugs
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
IMPORTANT POINTS
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, you have multiple options. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.
Day time temperature: Between 14 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperature : Between 0 °C and 5 °C
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
Presence of snow: You can expect snowfall during the second week of September
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
Most importantly, you must digitally upload and carry mandatory documents to get government permits for the trek - your ID card, and medical certificate. Keep them in a plastic bag to keep them safe in your backpack. There are no printing or photocopy facilities at the basecamp.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
After the end of August, cold sets in. Rains reduce, giving way to one of the best times to do the trek. The clouds part during this time of the year, and you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes.
Bus Adda
Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT than the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it “
Tip:
”. The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses.
Opt for the Indiahikes Shield:
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:

# 1. Trekking Shoes:
1. Trekking Shoes:
Another stark change that happens in early September is the change in the colour of the meadows. The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers change. And yet, there's a beauty to this change of tone.
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Pro Tip:
Cardiovascular endurance
Gurez Valley Trek requires sturdy trekking shoes, good grip, ankle support, and can handle snow. You have a long distance to cover every day. Also, there is a bouldery section to cross after the Satsar campsite, along with a few stream crossings. Here is
a quick video on how to choose your trekking shoes
Muscle strength
Book Flexible Air Tickets:
Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
We usually stop our trek after the second week of September. It turns colder, and the chances of snowfall increase. That raises the trek's difficulty, and crossing the pass is no longer possible. The trail on the other side becomes inaccessible.
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
➤ Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.

# A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gurez Valley Trek
: The
MH
Trek
a list of other budget shoes that trekkers are using
series are good options by Decathlon. They are tried and tested. There isn’t any necessity to buy the higher-priced models. Here is
| Buying Tip

# 3. Planning your return flight/train booking
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket, keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Dawar is about 3 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 5 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So it would be best if you stayed in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 8. You must include the buffer day in your itinerary. Day 7 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 8.
. Rent here -
. They are already broken into and in good condition. Rental shoes are
: We have the
MH 100
This is how they are kept clean
dirty or unhygienic.
not
rent from the Crosstrek Rental store
series and the
series are available for
| Rental
- where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
Indiahikes Shield
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the

# 2. Backpack
2. Backpack
, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
We suggest you opt for the
Note:
The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. Reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
For a trek like Gurez Valley, you need a 50-60 litre backpack. Make sure your backpack has good hip support, shoulder support and quick access pockets. Here is
a guide on how to choose a backpack
DIY Style of Trekking:
Read this article
This trek will be run in our Do-It-Yourself (DIY) style. Which means trekkers, along with a trek leader, are going to be doing the trek all without a support system.
before you book your trek.

# Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
: Wildcraft, Decathlon and Adventure Worx usually make good backpacks. While Wildcraft has more expensive ones, the other two brands have budget-friendly backpacks to choose from.
Book your flight out from Srinagar.

# Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
: The 55-litre backpack is available for rent from the Indiahikes store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks. Rent them if you don’t have a backpack.
Rent here
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
| Pro Tip:

# 3. Clothes:
3. Clothes:
Wearing layers is the mantra in the mountains. Layers give you maximum protection from all elements. And when the weather changes in the mountains (as it happens every few hours), you take off or put on layers as required.
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)

# 3 T-Shirts
3 T-Shirts
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
. Dry-fit T-shirts quickly dry your sweat, they are easy to wash and in case of a rainy day, they dry quicker. Round neck T-shirts are ok, but collared ones are better.
UV rays can burn you in no time
Wear one T-shirt and carry two. Carry full-sleeve dry-fit T-shirts (preferably collared). These prevent your arms and neck from getting sunburnt. In the rarified air on the trek, especially at high altitudes,
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location:
https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
? As Indians, we love cotton. Down in the plains when the heat is blistering 40°C it makes sense to wear cotton. But it takes a long time to dry when it gets wet. In the mountains, where it is cooler, synthetic is what you wear. They wick sweat rapidly and keep you dry. (But they do tend to smell quickly, so carry a roll-on deodorant with you.)
| Cotton or Synthetic
7006608852 (Firoz)
Contact Number:
is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
: If you are extra susceptible to cold, you could get a set of thermal inners. In our experience, wearing two T-shirts over another works as a better thermal. And they save you weight and space since you’re already carrying them.
| Pro Tip
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)

# 3 Insulation Layers:
3 Insulation Layers:
Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
The highest altitude you reach on this trek is 13,850 ft. At these altitudes, it can get cold even in the middle of summer. You will need at least 3 insulation layers for this trek.
You will need 2 light fleece layers and 1 full-sleeve light sweater. Do not get your grandma-stitched sweaters, which can be very heavy. You need sweaters and fleece jackets that can fold into compact rolls.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
is a guest house with good facilities available.
: If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
| Note

# 1 Outer Layer:
1 Outer Layer:
https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
A padded jacket serves the purpose here. You don’t need a water-resistant material. But you need an outer padded jacket that keeps the wind and cold out. Ensure your padded jacket has a hood as well.
+91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
Other hotel options that are close to the pick-up point:
Do you need a down/feather jacket?
Not really. A regular padded/shell jacket will do.
This video here will help you to learn more about the difference
Hotel Adlife
Hotel Care
Hotel Centre Point
are two other recommendations.
is just next to our Base, the pick-up location of the trek.
: Down/feather jackets are not available these days. Many jackets masquerade as down/feather jackets. They are essentially fine polyester-filled jackets. They mimic the function of a down jacket but are usually expensive.
: Padded jackets are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store. They are custom-made for Indiahikes and trekkers find them terrific, even in winter.
Rental

# Two Trek Pants:
Two Trek Pants:
Two pairs of trek pants should suffice for this trek. Wear one pair and carry two just in case it rains. Trek pants with zippered cut-offs at the thighs are very suitable for treks. Also, choose quick-dry pants over cotton. They dry up soon in case of small stream crossings/rain.
Go for pants with zippered pockets. They come in handy to keep your phone, handkerchief, or pocket snacks.
| Buying Tip:
Stretchable track pants make a good backup and can double up as your thermal bottoms. But track pants are not trekking pants -- so don’t use them as your main outerwear. Keep them only as a backup.
| Track Pants or Trek Pants?

# Mandatory Accessories, without these too you won’t be able to do the trek.
Mandatory Accessories, without these too you won’t be able to do the trek.
These accessories are mandatory. Don’t go to Gurez Valley without them. Trekkers generally put off purchasing / borrowing the accessories for the last minute. We suggest the opposite. Start gathering these accessories first.

# 1. Sunglasses:
1. Sunglasses:
Sunglasses are to prevent snow blindness. On a trek like Gurez Valley, Expect to walk on stretches of snow, especially during July. A small overexposure to direct sunlight on snow can lead to snow blindness (about a half hour’s exposure). That’s because fallen snow is like thousands of mirrors that reflect direct UV rays. So you need
sunglasses with UV protection

# Note:
Note:
Try getting sunglasses that wrap around instead of those that have openings on the side. Even peripheral UV ray exposure is not a good idea.
| Tip:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Wear sunglasses if the trekking day is bright and sunny (on open sections, meadows). On a snowy section, you must never take off your sunglasses until the section has been fully crossed.
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
The polarised hiking sunglasses are available for rent from the Indiahikes store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks. Rent them if you don’t have a pair of sunglasses.
| Rental:
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
: If you wear spectacles, you can get oversized sunglasses that you wear over your regular glasses (available at Decathlon). If that is cumbersome, photochromic lenses work equally well. Here’s
a quick guide on managing sunglasses with spectacles
| If you wear spectacles
Important note:
We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
: If you use contact lenses, you can use them on the trek too. The lens solution will not freeze. You will also not face any problems in changing your lens in your tent. Just carry enough cleaning solution with you to clean your fingers well. Wear your sunglasses over your contact lens.
| Contact lens users

# What happens if you are not fit:
What happens if you are not fit:
A sun cap is mandatory. Trekking without a sun cap can lead to headaches, sunstrokes, quick dehydration and a sharp drop in trekking performance.
You do not enjoy the trek
: In the mountains, the general rule is to keep your head covered at all times. During the day a sun cap protects you from the harsh rays of the sun (it is doubly stronger with naked UV rays). A sun cap keeps your body temperature in balance. In the evening/early morning, the reverse is true. Your head loses your body heat quickly. A woollen cap prevents heat from dissipating from your head.
| Tip
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
Buy here
The Crosstrek suncap is available for purchase at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. It is custom-made for our Himalayan treks with UV Protection and an adjustable strap.
: Sun caps with flaps are a blessing for trekkers. They cut out almost all UV leaks. They prevent sunburns in every possible way. They are a lot more effective than sunscreen lotion. A wide-brimmed sports hat also helps to prevent sunburn in a big way.

# 3. Synthetic Hand Gloves:
3. Synthetic Hand Gloves:
On a trek like Gure Valley Trek, you are going to be handling snow quite a bit during July. You’ll need gloves to grip something or to steady yourself in snow. More than snow, the evening cold winds through the wide valley will give you the chill. You also want the gloves to keep you warm. Get synthetic hand gloves that have waterproofing on the outside and a padded lining on the inside. If you find the combination difficult to get (not likely), wear a tight-fitting fleece hand glove inside a synthetic hand glove. Hand gloves are mandatory on this trek.
The Crosstrek Waterproof gloves are available at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks.
| Buying tip:
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.

# 4. Woollen Cap or Balaclava:
4. Woollen Cap or Balaclava:
Ensure these cover your ears. In the cold mountains, you lose maximum heat from your head, not from your hands, feet, or the rest of your body. This is why you need to keep your head protected, especially when the sun is down. Early mornings, late evenings, and a cold trekking day are when you must use your woollen cap.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.

# How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Your ears are sensitive too, so a woollen head cap that covers your ears is essential. A balaclava is a modern version of the woollen cap. It covers your ears, neck and parts of your face as well. Do not get a woollen cap that only covers your head.
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date.
Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
Crosstrek Fleece Cap
Crosstrek Neck Warmer
The Crosstrek Fleece cap and the Crosstrek neck warmer are available for purchase at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. Buy here -

# 5. Socks (3 pairs):
5. Socks (3 pairs):
Apart from two sports socks, take a pair of woollen socks. Sports socks give you cushioning plus warmth. Again the mantra is to wear synthetic socks or at least a synthetic blend. Cotton socks soak in water and sweat. They are very hard to dry. As for woollen socks, they help you to keep warm and snug at the night. If you cannot get woollen socks, wearing two sports socks serves the purpose as well.
| Buying Tip: Waterproof socks are available for purchase at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks.

# 6. Headlamp
6. Headlamp
Trekkers are often confused about whether they need to get a headlamp or a handheld torch. You need to get a headlamp because it leaves your hands free to do other activities. On the Gurez Valley Trek, you’ll need your hands free to wash dishes, pitch tents and hold your trek poles.
Ensure your headlamp covers a wider area and is not too focused as a single beam. On a trek, your headlamp must help you see around you as much as ahead of you.
What to Upload:
: Headlamps are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.

# 7. Trekking Poles (a pair):
7. Trekking Poles (a pair):
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Trekking poles give you stability and balance. They reduce your energy consumption by almost 40%. On the Gurez Valley Trek, there are steep ascents and descents. A pair of trekking poles will make the difference between a comfortable and a strenuous trek. In India, we tend to use a single trekking pole. However, two trekking poles give you greater stability and balance. They also increase your walking pace.
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
: Imported side-locking trekking poles are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:

# 8. Rainwear :
8. Rainwear :
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
On a trek, the weather can change quickly. A bright sunny day can turn into a downpour in a matter of minutes. Carry a poncho or a rain jacket to tackle this. A poncho is a big rain cover with openings for your arms and your head. It is extremely effective because it covers both you and your backpack. It is extremely light and weighs next to nothing.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Rain jackets are more streamlined and less cumbersome but weigh more. Rain pants are not required. Dry fit trek pants dry quickly even if soaking wet.
High-grade rain jackets are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
Rental:

# 9. Rain Cover for your Backpack:
9. Rain Cover for your Backpack:
Backpacks are your life. You carry all your dry clothes and your warm gear in your backpack. Your backpack must stay dry at all times. Modern backpacks usually come with built-in rain-covers. If your backpack does not have a rain cover, ensure you get a rain cover by either (a) buying a rain cover or (b) or cutting a large plastic sheet to the size of your backpack. You can roll the plastic sheet around your backpack and keep it in place with a string or elastic.
It's good practice to compartmentalise your clothes, accessories and other things in plastic covers inside your backpack. That way, even if it rains and your backpack gets wet, your things are water-proof inside the backpack.
Rain covers are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip:

# 10. Daypack (20-30 litres, optional):
10. Daypack (20-30 litres, optional):
In your daypack, you carry essentials like water bottles, rainwear, emergency medicines, a headlamp, some snacks and a warm layer. Your main backpack that carries most of your equipment is accessible only at the campsites.
A day pack is a smaller backpack that is usually of 20-30 ltr capacity. Laptop bags are not day packs. Do not get them.

# 1. A Toilet Kit:
1. A Toilet Kit:
Keep your toilet kit light. Carry just the basics -- toothbrush, toothpaste, small soap, toilet tissue roll, a small moisturiser, lip balm, and a roll-on deodorant. You will not be able to have a bath on the trek, so don’t overload on soaps and shampoos.
Carry miniature-sized items. You will not need more than that. If you’re travelling in a group, share one toothpaste for all.
| Pro tip:
Avoid getting large toilet rolls. The smallest size roll is more than enough for a trek like Gurez Valley
If you are likely to have your periods on your trek date, don’t worry about it. On the trek, you can use your pads, tampons, or menstrual cups. There will be toilet tents where you can get changed. Make sure you carry zip-lock bags to bring back your menstrual waste. Don’t leave behind any waste in the mountains.
Watch this video to learn how to dispose of your sanitary waste
| For women:

# 2. Cutlery:
2. Cutlery:
Carry a lunch box, a coffee mug, and a spoon. Your lunch box must be leakproof. You are expected to wash your cutlery. Trekkers often expect Indiahikes to wash their cutlery. When you allow Indiahikes to wash your cutlery, your cutlery becomes part of a mass washing system. You immediately invite germs, and bacteria to settle on your cutlery. The incidence of stomach disorders rises exponentially.
Carry stainless steel cutlery. Avoid fancy high-grade plastic cutlery. Stainless steel cutlery is infinitely easier to wash in cold water. Grease is easier to remove and hygiene is at its highest.
Pro tip:
Rental Tip 1:
Tiffin boxes can be rented at the Crosstrek Rental store.
Gurez Valley has many hours of trekking every day (approximately 6 hours). You need to carry two one-litre water bottles to keep yourself hydrated over the distance. If you are used to a hydration pack, then that is ok too. If one of the two bottles is a lightweight thermos, then that helps you to store warm water on a really cold day or for late evenings and early mornings.
| Two 1 litre bottles or a 2-litre hydration pack:
You could rent lightweight thermos flasks from the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip 2:
Rent here.
Water bottles can be rented at the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip 3:

# 3. Plastic Cover:
3. Plastic Cover:
Carry 3-4 old plastic covers to keep your used clothes. You could use them even for wet clothes. Re-use old plastic bags for this and do not buy new ones.
PRO TIPS
Keep essential documents in a clear plastic cover and slide them into the inner pocket at the back of your backpack. This keeps them from getting wet. You need to show your ID card even while trekking at a couple of army check-posts.

# Mandatory Documents
Mandatory Documents
These are documents required for legal purposes by Indiahikes and the forest department. Without any of these, you will not be allowed to trek.
Either having an Aadhar card or passport will do. The forest department requires this for your identification.
Original and photocopy of government photo identity card.
Disclaimer certificate:
Download disclaimer certificate
You don't need to print or carry the disclaimer form. Your Trek Leader will give it to you at the base. Just sign and hand it over then and there. However, if you are a minor unaccompanied by your parents, please download this disclaimer, print it, get it signed by your parents/guardian and carry it to the basecamp. –
Download medical certificate
Medical certificate:
The medical certificate needs to be filled out by an MBBS doctor, without which the forest department will not issue permissions for your trek. It is also a requirement by Indiahikes –
. They will respond to you within 24 hours.
Indiahikes has a panel of doctors who can help you with a medical certificate. They are available for online consultation. To get in touch with them, please write to
trekmedicalcertificates@gmail.com
Consultation fee: Rs 350

# Personal Medical Kit
Personal Medical Kit
Carry these medicines with you, easily accessible at all times.
Do not take any medication unless you have consulted your trek leader
(1 Strip): Be on a course of a half tablet of Diamox starting from Delhi every 12 hours (125 mg). Being on a preventive course of Diamox dramatically reduces the chances of Acute Mountain Sickness on the Gurez Valley Trek
Diamox
(1 Strip): This is part of the Live Saving Drugs kit. Do not take this on your own. Your trek leader will inform you in case the need arises.
Dexamethasone
(5 tablets): Again, part of the Live Saving Drugs kit. Do not take this on your own. Your trek leader will inform you in case the need arises.
Nifedipine
(5 tablets): This is a paracetamol. It helps to tackle fever and mild pain.
Dolo 650
(4 tablets): Carry this, especially if you are prone to motion sickness. Pop one-half hour before the start of your road journey.
Avomine
(5 tablets): Take a combiflam if you get a sudden twist of the leg or a muscle strain. It is a pain reliever. It also contains paracetamol.
Combiflam
(4 tablets): Take it if you feel the food you’ve taken is undigested. Alert your trek leader immediately. It could be a sign of AMS.
Digene
(6 packs): Consume a pack of ORS water at least once a day, usually the mid-day when you are in the middle of your trek. It replenishes essential salts lost while trekking.
: It also makes cold water easier to drink.
ORS
Tip
(optional)
Carry this if you are prone to knee injury or have known knee pain issues.
Knee Braces
. If there is an emergency, our trek leaders know how to tackle it. Meanwhile, contact your trek leader before consuming any of these medicines.
Life Saving Drugs
Our trek leaders carry a high-altitude medical kit with them which also consist of
We find that these medicines by trekkers are rarely used. But you cannot do away with them. At the end of the trek, please donate unused medication to your trek leader. Some medicines get distributed to villages on the trek, and some are added to the Indiahikes medical kit.
