# Nafran Valley - Complete Trek Information
Nafran Valley - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a surficial experience.
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek
Use this section to learn about the Nafran Valley trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content.

# How Difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
How Difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety

# How Difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek
How Difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety

# What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ? Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ? Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek

# What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek

# Stay Options for Nafran Valley Trek Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
Stay Options for Nafran Valley Trek Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend

# Stay Options for Nafran Valley Trek
Stay Options for Nafran Valley Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend

# What to Pack for Your Trek
What to Pack for Your Trek
DAY 1
DAY 2
DAY 3
DAY 4
DAY 5
DAY 6
DAY 7
Things you must take on the trek

# How to Get Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
How to Get Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek

# Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Srinagar to Aru
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Srinagar to Aru
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
100 km
3 hours |

# What is the Best Time to do the Nafran Valley Trek?
What is the Best Time to do the Nafran Valley Trek?
Highlights:
There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
Get your questions answered here
You will cover a total of around 41 km in six trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,565 ft (7,960 ft to 13,789 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents and boulder sections. Several difficult sections on this trek require you to be alert and trek carefully.

# Moderate- Difficult
Moderate- Difficult
The best time to do the Nafran Valley trek is from the second week of July to the beginning of September. It is the traditional monsoon season in the rest of the Indian subcontinent, but things are different in the Kashmir Valley.
Suitable for fit beginners and experienced trekkers

# How to Reach the Base Camp of Nafran Valley
How to Reach the Base Camp of Nafran Valley
Kashmir receives only mild rainfall in July and August. Not at all like in Himachal Pradesh or Uttarakhand. That's because of the Pir Panjal range which prevents most rain clouds from reaching the Kashmir valley.
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
, a picturesque hamlet 12 km from Pahalgam.
Aru
To reach the Nafran Valley trek, you must travel around 100 km south of Srinagar to Pahalgam. The base camp for the Nafran Valley trek is
Terrain:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
The trail throughout has significant elevation changes, including a challenging climb to Harnag Pass at 12,500 ft. This section is particularly demanding due to its steep and rocky nature.

# 1. Here's a quick view of how to plan your travel
1. Here's a quick view of how to plan your travel
It’s a boon because it makes for a comfortable trekking experience. In all the other seasons, it’s too cold to trek, the trail and the meadows are buried under snow for the most part.
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
Day 0: Book your
We recommend you to reach Srinagar a day before the start date of your trek.
air ticket to Srinagar.
Packing Checklist
The climbs on this trek come in long stretches. You’ll also descend the same way, which is tough on your knees.
Mandatory Documents
Personal Medical Kit
But even if we look at just one season, the Nafran Valley trek changes appearance and colour throughout the three months - July, August and September.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Certain sections of the trek, especially near Harnag Pass, require careful navigation over large boulders and uneven terrain, increasing the risk of slips and falls.
Alhamra Retreats
Hotel Chinar Inn
Royal Athena Houseboats
Some stay options for stay at Srinagar:
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
and
What to Pack For Your Trek
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
The trail to Harbhagwan Lake at 13,789 ft, involves strenuous climbs and descents.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.

# Packing Checklist
Packing Checklist
There are long days on this trek. Some days go past 10 kilometers.
Book a return
Day 9:
flight
ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 8.
A route map of the Nafran Valley trek
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? collapse accordion

# What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute?
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute?
There are river crossings on this trek. You must be nimble on your feet and be mentally ready to face the biting cold temperature of these glacial streams
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature: Between 4 °C and 8 °C

# How long is the Nafran Valley trek?
How long is the Nafran Valley trek?
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
Presence of snow: Trekking opens on the Nafran Valley trail in the first week of July. Until then the upper reaches are under heavy snow. The lower meadows open earlier.
100 km |
3-4 hours |
Drive Distance:
Drive Duration:
Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers:
Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.

# Where is Nafran Valley?
Where is Nafran Valley?
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
The cost of transport from Srinagar to Aru is Rs 600 per trekker for an SUV and Rs 6,000 for the entire vehicle in the case of a tempo traveler. We will pick you up from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu Barbara Shah Chowk, Srinagar at 8 am.
Pahalgam is about 100 km from Srinagar and Aru is 12 km away from Pahalgam. Pahalgam is a more familiar place around Srinagar so if you are reaching on your own, take a shared vehicle from Srinagar to Pahalgam. It takes about 3 hours to get there.

# How many lakes do you see on Nafran Valley trek?
How many lakes do you see on Nafran Valley trek?
How long is the Nafran Valley trek? collapse accordion
Where is Nafran Valley? collapse accordion
When you trek in July you can expect to see remnants of snow by both the lakes on the trek - Harnag and Harbhagwan. You may even see melting ice floes in the lake in early July.
Weather
On your return, your trek ends at Aru. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar.
You reach Srinagar between 7.30 to 8.00 pm.
How many lakes do you see on Nafran Valley trek? collapse accordion

# Is it safe to trek in Kashmir?
Is it safe to trek in Kashmir?
43.5 km
The Nafran Valley trek is
long and you gain 6,169 ft in total on the Nafran Valley trek. The safest way to do this trek is to cover this distance in six days as it allows enough time for your body to acclimatize to the high altitude. It’s easier and makes trekking more enjoyable.
At the start of the season, when the snow has just melted, the trail can be wet and muddy. The Streams also flow at full force, making the river crossings tricky.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
The Nafran Valley trek is situated in the Pahalgam district. It is slightly towards the west of Kashmir. The trek starts from Mondlan, a picturesque hamlet, which is 10 km from the famous touristy town of Pahalgam.
Aru to Srinagar is a bit more expensive. The cost of transport is Rs 4,500 per vehicle. A maximum of 7 trekkers may generally sit in an Innova or a Tavera.
Is it safe to trek in Kashmir? collapse accordion
This setting offers a fleeting glimpse of what the landscape looks like for the rest of the year - buried under snow, punctuated with frozen lakes.
You come across two alpine lakes on this trek. Harnag and Harbhagwan. Out of the two, Harbhagwan is the highest lake at 13,789 ft ft.
Buffer Day:
Keep a
buffer day
for emergencies. Your trek is 7 days long, but keep an extra 8th day as your buffer day. This is outside the itinerary. On a trek, you cannot predict bad rain, landslides, or a political situation. If you don't use the buffer day on the trek, you can always use it for sightseeing in Srinagar.

# How difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek?
How difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek?
The Nafran Valley Trek falls in the rain-shadow region of Kashmir and rain is usually not a big worry. But exceptions do occur. Rainfall or snowfall lasting for hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Yes, it is safe to trek in Kashmir. Talking about Nafran Valley, while the trek remains untouched during times of unrest, getting to the base camp or onto the trail might raise concerns in times of unrest.

# How fit do I need to be for Nafran Valley?
How fit do I need to be for Nafran Valley?
: The process of your registration, health screening, and document verification starts at 4.00 PM. Ensure you reach Aru on time for it. Do not travel elsewhere on this particular day before your trek.
Note
Sometimes, even if it’s not the best phase to complete the trek, the sight is spellbinding.
How difficult is the Nafran Valley Trek? collapse accordion
play video
Most walks are on green, undulating meadows. But as a chunk of this trek lies above 10,000 ft, watch out for signs of AMS if you cut the itinerary short.

# How many months in advance should I book the Nafran Valley Trek?
How many months in advance should I book the Nafran Valley Trek?
How fit do I need to be for Nafran Valley? collapse accordion
From Pahalgam, Aru is right across the Lidder River. It takes another half an hour to cover this distance. Today, after a 3.5 hours drive from Srinagar you reach Aru by 4 pm. There are plenty of places to stay at Aru, though they are a tad expensive. Indiahikes trekkers will stay in a homestay at the campsite.
Always book your
flight/train tickets after
including
return
the buffer day in your itinerary.

# Nafran Valley from mid-July to the third week of August
Nafran Valley from mid-July to the third week of August
So, here are certain pointers to keep in mind when you are travelling from Srinagar to Pahalgam and then Aru:
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Nafran Valley is a very high altitude trek that takes you near to 14,000 ft. The trek climbs rapidly and your safety depends a lot on the preparation you put in for the trek.

# 2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
A Himalayan trek like Nafran Valley requires a really good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
6.5-8 hours |
7960 ft to 10374 ft
8.5 km |
Altitude Gain:
Trek Distance:
Trek Duration:

# Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp at Aru?
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp at Aru?
If you’re staying overnight at Srinagar, stay in touristy areas like Dal Lake or Lal Chowk.
The trek is long and strenuous as well. Having prior experience trekking in the Himalayas helps in accustoming you to hardship. Having know-how about Acute Mountain Sickness greatly helps in dealing with altitude issues you may face on the trek.
Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to either Srinagar.
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, the
day before
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Nafran Valley? collapse accordion
Moderate to Difficult
Presence of snow: Now, the snow has almost melted, and the trail is carpeted with bright green meadows.
Day
5 km in 32 minutes
Run at least
before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to
if you wish to trek with us.
jog 25 km a week
minimum mandatory requirement
or 100 km in a month. It's a

# I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek?
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek?
go to next day
Blend in with the crowd in terms of dressing and behaviour.
Altitude:
How many months in advance should I book the Nafran Valley Trek? collapse accordion
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp at Aru? collapse accordion
You will get mobile connectivity only till Srinagar. After that, the network is sketchy and almost non-existent.

# Trek from Arram Pathri to Nafran Valley via Arram Pathri Ridge
Trek from Arram Pathri to Nafran Valley via Arram Pathri Ridge
Avoid going to downtown areas. Stick to tourist spaces as they tend to be safer and well-protected during times of unrest
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? collapse accordion

# Is offloading available on the Nafran Valley trek?
Is offloading available on the Nafran Valley trek?
Acute Mountain Sickness
This is one of those treks where altitude gain is quick. You start low. But in just two trekking days, you’re way above 11,000 feet. That’s a lot of climbing in a short span. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by
are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
10374 ft to 11358 ft via 11482 ft
6.5 hours |
8.25 km |
Altitude Gain and Loss:
There are two options.
After mid-July, the Nafran Valley trek starts revealing itself in full glory.
The Nafran Valley has a narrow window for trekking. It is possible to trek in Kashmir for only 3 months in a year. The season starts in July and goes till the middle of September.
We have a cloakroom facility available at Aru for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
Don’t panic if there is a curfew. Keep calm and wait for it to pass.
OR
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
Make sure you finish all your important telephone calls before starting your travel to the base camp. Inform family members about poor connectivity during the trek.

# Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
Now, the snow has almost melted. And the trail is carpeted with bright green meadows, which are in contrast with the rugged, grey mountains rising at the fringes. The best part is, that these meadows are densely dotted with so many wildflowers!
Easy to Moderate
. Aim to
25 km in 60 minutes
Alternatively, cycle for at least
cycle 125 km a week
or 500 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.

# Fitness Target
Fitness Target
Even though Nafran Valley has been newly discovered, trekkers eagerly wait to trek in Kashmir.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar or even better if you can head towards Aru.
Is offloading available on the Nafran Valley trek? collapse accordion
: Only Postpaid- SIM cards work in Kashmir.
On Moderate-Difficult treks, you’ll walk for about 8-12 km each day. Gradual to steep ascents and descents are common on all days. Expect to reach high altitudes of 15,000+ ft. There will also be technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks), which our technical teams will help you navigate.

# Trek from Nafran Valley to Harnag Lake via Harnag Pass
Trek from Nafran Valley to Harnag Lake via Harnag Pass
To do the Nafran Valley Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
11358 ft to 12099 ft via 12509 ft
7 hours |
9.5 km |
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
You experience this beauty, especially in the Shul Margi and Bhaj Margi plains, as you trek over tiny flowers of colours ranging from violet, red, blue, and purple to yellow and white.
As for electricity, you will get electricity and charging points at your base camp in Aru.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. However, if you have any medical issues and are not able to carry your own backpack, you can offload your backpack. The cost of offloading on the Nafran Valley Trek is Rs 4,800 for the entire trek.
For this reason, we suggest you book the trek 5 to 6 months in advance for the desired slot.
You can travel to Aru, if you land at Srinagar
before noon
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Moderate

# Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
Frozen chunks of the alpine lakes have melted by now. The waters of Harnag and Harbhagwan are deep blue.
If you are above the age of 58 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).

# Trek from Harnag Lake to Harbhagwan Lake and back to Harnag Lake
Trek from Harnag Lake to Harbhagwan Lake and back to Harnag Lake
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. Many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
Emergency Exits:
12099 ft to 13,789 ft and back
9 hours |
9.20 km |
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Rains -- more like evening showers -- pick up during this time.
On the Nafran Valley trek, your best bet is to descend to Mondlan, Aru or Baltal.
When you are deep into the trek—say at Harnag Lake—it easily takes a day to reach the Aru exit. If you cannot afford that much time, check for the alternative route via Baltal, which is 4-5 hours away.
Difficult
Given below is a list of all the gear you need for the Nafran Valley trek:
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advise you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, you have multiple options. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.

# Nafran Valley from the end of August to first week of September
Nafran Valley from the end of August to first week of September
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.

# Trek from Harnag Lake to Arram Pathri
Trek from Harnag Lake to Arram Pathri
. It costs less than Rs 2000 for the entire trek. We highly recommend renting gear since it is both more affordable and environmentally friendly.
Crosstrek Rental Store
If you don’t have certain items,
by Indiahikes
you can rent high-quality gear like trekking shoes, backpacks, and jackets from the
Closest Hospital to the Nafran Valley Trek:
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
12099 ft to 11,482 ft
5.5 hours |
7.15 km |
Altitude Loss:
Day time temperature: Between 12 °C and 18 °C | Night time temperature: Between 2 °C and 6 °C
In case of a medical emergency, the closest option is Pahalgam, which is just a 30-mins drive from Aru. If you need serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.
". The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Bus Adda
Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT than the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it "
Tip:
There will not be any snow at this time. The green meadows start turning golden brown as we step into September.

# Trek from Arram Pathri to Aru. Drive to Srinagar
Trek from Arram Pathri to Aru. Drive to Srinagar
, you must bring your personal medical kit as well. We are already equipped with BP machines, oximeters and canned oxygen, but your medical kit is for quick access to you, especially while travelling.
Additionally, you’ll notice a small medical kit in the list. While our trek leaders carry medical kits with 17 medicines including
life-saving drugs
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
11,854 ft to 7960 ft
6 hours |
8.20 km |
Easy. You are expected to reach Srinagar by 8.00 PM. Cost will be Rs 3,000 per cab (5-6 Seater).
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Pro Tip:
Cold sets in as the season progress to the end of August. The evening showers become frequent. But when the clouds part during this time of the year, you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Most importantly, you must digitally upload and carry mandatory documents to get government permits for the trek - your ID card and medical certificate. Keep them in a plastic bag to keep them safe in your backpack. There are no printing or photocopy facilities at the basecamp.
Please note:
The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
You will also see a change in the colour of the meadows. They look a bit roasted, just with a tinge of brown. Watch out for this as you camp at Nafran. Also, on the day you trek from Harnag to Harbhagwan.

# 1. Trekking Shoes:
1. Trekking Shoes:
Muscle strength
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket, keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Aru is about 3-4 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 5.00 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So you need to stay in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 9. The buffer day must be included in your itinerary. Day 8 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 9.
The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers wilt too. And yet, there’s a beauty to this change of tone.
Nafran Valley trek requires sturdy trekking shoes, good grip, ankle support and can handle snow. Here is
a quick video on how to choose your trekking shoes
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
IMPORTANT POINTS
We usually stop our trek towards the first week of September, but some lone trekkers do attempt it till the end of September. So, it’s doable. But it may not be the most comfortable time, given the cold temperatures.

# A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nafran Valley Trek
: The
Buying Tip
MH
Trek
a list of other budget shoes that trekkers are using
series and
series are good options by Decathlon. They are tried and tested. There isn’t any necessity to buy the higher-priced models. Here is
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
Note:
The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. Reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
. Rent here -
. They are already broken into and in good condition. Rental shoes are
: We have the
MH 100
Rental
This is how they are kept clean
dirty or unhygienic.
not
rent from the Indiahikes store
series by Decathlon available for
Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses.
Opt for the Indiahikes Shield:

# Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
For a trek like Nafran Valley, you need a 50-60 litre backpack. Make sure your backpack has good hip support, shoulder support and quick access pockets. Here is
a guide on how to choose a backpack
Book Flexible Air Tickets:
Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
➤ Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
: Wildcraft, Decathlon and Adventure Worx usually make good backpacks. While Wildcraft has more expensive ones, the other two brands have budget-friendly backpacks to choose from.
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
| Pro Tip:
: The 55-litre backpack is available for rent from the Indiahikes store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks. Rent them if you don’t have a backpack.
Rent here
| Rental
- where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
Indiahikes Shield
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the

# 4. Planning your hotel/stay
4. Planning your hotel/stay
Assume the trek is going to run without any hiccups. So what happens if you use your buffer day on the trek? Unfortunately, then you’ll probably lose your hotel booking. So book hotels where you may not have to transfer money in advance. Even if you do, consider it better than missing out on the trek. In Srinagar, it is difficult to find last-minute hotel bookings when you finish the trek.
While booking hotels on your return, always book your rooms assuming
the buffer day is not being used.

# 3. Clothes:
3. Clothes:
Wearing layers is the mantra in the mountains. Layers give you maximum protection from all elements. And when the weather changes in the mountains (as it happens every few hours), you take off or put on layers as required.
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
We suggest you opt for the

# 3 T-shirts
3 T-shirts
is close to the pickup location. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
UV rays can burn you in no time
Wear one T-shirt and carry two. Carry full sleeve dry-fit T-shirts (preferably collared). These prevent your arms and neck from getting sunburnt. In the rarified air on the trek, especially at high altitudes,
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Dry-fit T-shirts quickly dry your sweat, they are easy to wash and in case of a rainy day, they dry quicker. Round neck T-shirts are ok, but collared ones are better.
Location:
https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
: You can get dry-fit T-shirts from Decathlon. Also, stores like Reliance Trends and Max have dry-fit T-shirts. They don’t usually cost much.
7006608852 (Firoz)
Contact Number:
As Indians, we love cotton. Down in the plains when the heat is blistering 40°C it makes sense to wear cotton. But it takes a long time to dry when it gets wet. In the mountains, where it is cooler, synthetic is what you wear. They wick sweat rapidly and keep you dry. (But they do tend to smell quickly, so carry a roll-on deodorant with you.)
Cotton or Synthetic?
is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
[protip]Protip[/protip] If you are extra susceptible to cold, you could get a set of thermal inners. In our experience, wearing two T-shirts over another works as a better thermal. And they save you weight and space since you’re already carrying them.
https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.

# 3 Insulation Layers
3 Insulation Layers
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
is a guest house with good facilities available.
: If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
| Note
The highest altitude you reach on this trek is 13,200 ft. At these altitudes, it can get cold even in the middle of summer. You will need at least 3 insulation layers for this trek.

# Strength Training Schedule:
Strength Training Schedule:
You will need 2 light fleece layers and 1 full-sleeve light sweater. Do not get your grandma stitched sweaters, which can be very heavy. You need sweaters and fleece jackets that can fold into compact rolls.
https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
+91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)

# How to get to Aru on your own:
How to get to Aru on your own:
A padded jacket serves the purpose here. You don’t need a water-resistant material. But you need an outer padded jacket that keeps the wind and cold out. Ensure your padded jacket has a hood as well.
Step out of the Srinagar (Sheikh Ul-Alam) airport. You will first need to get to the Tourist Reception Centre (TRC), which is 12 km away from the airport. But it’s easy to get there.
Do you need a down/feather jacket?
Not really. A regular padded/shell jacket will do.
This video here will help you to learn more about the difference
The TRC lies in the heart of Srinagar. It is a prominent landmark and well connected, hard to miss as it has a football ground attached. There are two ways to get to the TRC.
: Down/feather jackets are not available these days. Many jackets masquerade as down/feather jackets. They are essentially fine polyester-filled jackets. They mimic the function of a down jacket but are usually expensive.
1. Government Bus
: This is the best way. There are airport buses every half an hour which take you to TRC. The ticket now costs approximately Rs 80. This is the most reliable, safe and pocket-friendly way, provided you have time on your side.
: Padded jackets are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store. They are custom-made for Indiahikes and trekkers find them terrific, even in winter.
2.
: The next option is to take a private cab. You will get plenty of them immediately as you step out of the airport. But take this option only if you are pressed for time because it is expensive. The cab will cost you around Rs 600.
Cab

# Two Trek Pants
Two Trek Pants
Two pairs of trek pants should suffice for this trek. Wear one pair and carry two just in case it rains. Trek pants with zippered cut-offs at the thighs are very suitable for treks. Also, choose quick-dry pants over cotton. They dry up soon in case of small stream crossings/rain.
Note: While autos do ply in Srinagar city, you won't find them in the airport complex. You must walk a km or so from the airport to find an auto. We do not recommend it.

# Direct Route from TRC to Aru
Direct Route from TRC to Aru
Buying Tip:
Go for pants with zippered pockets. They come in handy to keep your phone, handkerchief or pocket snacks.
After you get to TRC, the next step is to begin your journey to Aru. The route to Aru goes via Pahalgam.
Stretchable track pants make a good backup and can double up as your thermal bottoms. But track pants are not trekking pants -- so don’t use them as your main outerwear. Keep them only as a backup.
Track pants or trek pants?
So, your journey's first, most prominent leg will be to Pahalgam.
There are two parallel routes for this. One moves on the four-lane Jammu Highway and goes through Anantnag. The second is on the other side of the Lidder river, which takes the same amount of time but is a notch more scenic due to the apple and apricot orchards on the way. This is the route through Bijbehra.

# Mandatory Accessories, without these too you won’t be able to do the trek.
Mandatory Accessories, without these too you won’t be able to do the trek.
These accessories are mandatory. Don’t go to Nafran Valley without them. Trekkers generally put off purchasing / borrowing the accessories for the last minute. We suggest the opposite. Start gathering these accessories first.
Both routes converge three kilometres before Pahalgam. The entire journey takes around 3.5 hours.

# Note:
Note:
Go for this option if you are travelling independently and want to opt for shared vehicles. You will find frequently shared cabs leaving for Anantnag from Dalgate taxi stand, near Jan Bakers on M A Road to Anantnag. It costs around Rs.80 for a distance of 58 km (1.5-2 hours).
Sunglasses are to prevent snow blindness. On a trek like Nafran Valley, especially in early July expect to walk on long stretches of snow. A small overexposure to direct sunlight on snow can lead to snow blindness (about a half hour’s exposure). That’s because fallen snow is like thousands of mirrors that reflect direct UV rays. So you need
sunglasses with UV protection
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Hop into another shared vehicle from Anantnag stand to Pahalgam. Expect it to cost around Rs 110 for a distance of 45 km (1 – 1.5 hours).
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
Try getting sunglasses that wrap around instead of those that have openings on the side. Even peripheral UV ray exposure is not a good idea.
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
Wear sunglasses if the trekking day is bright and sunny (on open sections, meadows). On a snowy section, you must never take off your sunglasses until the section has been fully crossed.
There are chances your shared/private vehicle may not go till Aru as some of them do not have permission to cross Pahalgam. Enquire about this with the driver.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Aru is 12 km from Pahalgam. Cabs to Aru usually leave from the non-touristy side of Pahalgam. Talk to your cab driver or locals to figure this one out. The journey is barely 20 minutes long.
Cross Anantnag Checkpost before 10am &
The polarised hiking sunglasses are available for rent from the Indiahikes store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks. Rent them if you don’t have a pair of sunglasses.
| Rental:
Important note:
We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
: If you wear spectacles, you can get oversized sunglasses that you wear over your regular glasses (available at Decathlon). If that is cumbersome, photochromic lenses work equally well. Here’s
If you wear spectacles
a quick guide on managing sunglasses with spectacles
Pahalgam Checkpost before 12pm
Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
: If you use contact lenses, you can use them on the trek too. The lens solution will not freeze. You will also not face any problems in changing your lens in your tent. Just carry enough cleaning solution with you to clean your fingers well. Wear your sunglasses over your contact lens.
Contact lens users

# What happens if you are not fit:
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.

# 2. Sun Cap:
2. Sun Cap:
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
A sun cap is mandatory. Trekking without a sun cap can lead to headaches, sunstrokes, quick dehydration and a sharp drop in trekking performance.
: In the mountains, the general rule is to keep your head covered at all times. During the day a sun cap protects you from the harsh rays of the sun (it is doubly stronger with naked UV rays). A sun cap keeps your body temperature in balance. In the evening/early morning, the reverse is true. Your head loses your body heat quickly. A woollen cap prevents heat from dissipating from your head.
Tip
Sun caps with flaps are a blessing for trekkers. They cut out almost all UV leaks and prevent sunburns in every possible way. They are a lot more effective than sunscreen lotion. A wide-brimmed sports hat also helps to prevent sunburn in a big way.

# 3. Synthetic Hand Gloves:
3. Synthetic Hand Gloves:
On a trek like Nafran Valley, you are going to be handling snow quite a bit if you trekking in early July You’ll need gloves to grip something or to steady yourself in snow. You also want the gloves to keep you warm.
Get synthetic hand gloves that have waterproofing on the outside and a padded lining on the inside. If you find the combination difficult to get (not likely), wear a tight-fitting fleece hand glove inside a synthetic hand glove. Hand gloves are mandatory on this trek. These are also very useful when it rains to keep your hands dry and warm.
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
Buy here
The Crosstrek Waterproof gloves are available at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks.
| Buying tip:
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.

# 4. Woolen Cap or Balaclava:
4. Woolen Cap or Balaclava:
Ensure these cover your ears. In the cold mountains, you lose maximum heat from your head, not from your hands, feet or the rest of your body. This is why you need to keep your head protected, especially when the sun is down. Early mornings, late evenings, and a cold trekking day are when you must use your woollen cap.

# How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date.
Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
Your ears are sensitive too, so a woollen head cap that covers your ears is essential. A balaclava is a modern version of the woollen cap. It covers your ears, neck and parts of your face as well. Do not get a woollen cap that only covers your head.
Crosstrek Fleece Cap
Crosstrek Neck Warmer
The Crosstrek Fleece cap and the Crosstrek neck warmer are available for purchase at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. Buy here -
| Buying Tip:

# 5. Socks (3 Pairs):
5. Socks (3 Pairs):
Apart from two sports socks, take a pair of woollen socks. Sports socks give you cushioning plus warmth. Again the mantra is to wear synthetic socks or at least a synthetic blend. Cotton socks soak in water and sweat. They are very hard to dry. As for woollen socks, they help you to keep warm and snug at the night. If you cannot get woollen socks, wearing two sports socks serves the purpose as well.
| Buying Tip: Waterproof socks are available for purchase at the Crosstrek Merchandise store. They are custom-made for our Himalayan treks.

# 6. Headlamp
6. Headlamp
Trekkers are often confused about whether they need to get a headlamp or a handheld torch. You need to get a headlamp because it leaves your hands free to do other activities. On the Nafran Valley trek, you’ll need your hands free to wash dishes, pitch tents and hold your trek poles.
What to Upload:
Ensure your headlamp covers a wider area and is not too focused as a single beam. On a trek, your headlamp must help you see around you as much as ahead of you.
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
: Headlamps are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.

# 7. Trekking Poles (a pair):
7. Trekking Poles (a pair):
Trekking poles give you stability and balance. They reduce your energy consumption by almost 40%. On the Nafran Valley trek, there are steep ascents and descents. A pair of trekking poles will make the difference between a comfortable and a strenuous trek. In India, we tend to use a single trekking pole. However, two trekking poles give you greater stability and balance. They also increase your walking pace.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
: Imported side-locking trekking poles are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.

# 8. Rainwear:
8. Rainwear:
On a trek, the weather can change quickly. A bright sunny day can turn into a downpour in a matter of minutes. Carry a poncho or a rain jacket to tackle this. A poncho is a big rain cover with openings for your arms and your head. It is extremely effective because it covers both you and your backpack. It is extremely light and weighs next to nothing.
Rain jackets are more streamlined and less cumbersome but weigh more. Rain pants are not required. Dry fit trek pants dry quickly even if soaking wet.
High-grade rain jackets are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.

# 9. Rain Cover for your Backpack:
9. Rain Cover for your Backpack:
Backpacks are your life. You carry all your dry clothes and your warm gear in your backpack. Your backpack must stay dry at all times. Modern backpacks usually come with built-in rain covers.
If your backpack does not have a rain cover, ensure you get a rain cover by either (a) buying a rain cover or (b) or cutting a large plastic sheet to the size of your backpack. You can roll the plastic sheet around your backpack and keep it in place with a string or elastic.
It's good practice to compartmentalize your clothes, accessories and other things in plastic covers inside your backpack. That way, even if it rains and your backpack gets wet, your things are water-proof inside the backpack.
Rain covers are available for rent at the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip:

# 10. Daypack (20-30 ltr, optional):
10. Daypack (20-30 ltr, optional):
In your daypack, you carry essentials like water bottles, rainwear, emergency medicines, a headlamp, some snacks and a warm layer. Your main backpack that carries most of your equipment is accessible only at the campsites.
A day pack is a smaller backpack that is usually of 20-30 ltr capacity. Laptop bags are not daypacks. Do not get them.
Click here
to go back to the Table of Contents.

# 1. A Toilet Kit:
1. A Toilet Kit:
Keep your toilet kit light. Carry just the basics -- toothbrush, toothpaste, small soap, toilet tissue roll, a small moisturizer, lip balm, and a roll-on deodorant. You will not be able to have a bath on the trek, so don’t overload on soaps and shampoos.
[protip]Protip[/protip] Carry miniature-sized items. You will not need more than that. If you’re travelling in a group, share one toothpaste for all.
Avoid getting large toilet rolls. The smallest size roll is more than enough for a trek like Nafran Valley.
For Women:
If you are likely to have your periods on your trek date, don’t worry about it. You can use your pads, tampons or menstrual cups on the trek. There will be toilet tents where you can get changed. Make sure you carry ziplock bags to bring back your menstrual waste. Don’t leave behind any waste in the mountains.
Watch this video to learn how to dispose of your sanitary waste

# 2. Cutlery:
2. Cutlery:
Carry a lunch box, a coffee mug and a spoon. Your lunch box must be leakproof. You are expected to wash your cutlery. Trekkers often expect Indiahikes to wash their cutlery. When you allow Indiahikes to wash your cutlery, your cutlery becomes part of a mass washing system. You immediately invite germs, and bacteria to settle on your cutlery. The incidence of stomach disorders rises exponentially.
Carry stainless steel cutlery. Avoid fancy high-grade plastic cutlery. Stainless steel cutlery is infinitely easier to wash in cold water. Grease is easier to remove and hygiene is at its highest.
Tiffin boxes can be rented at the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip 1:
The 'Trekker for Life - All purpose mug' is available for purchase at the Crosstrek Merchandise store.
Nafran Valley has many hours of trekking every day (approximately 6 hours). You need to carry two one-litre water bottles to keep yourself hydrated over the distance. If you are used to a hydration pack, then that is ok too. If one of the two bottles is a lightweight thermos, then that helps you to store warm water on a really cold day or for late evenings and early mornings.
| Two 1 litre bottles or a 2-litre hydration pack:
You could rent lightweight thermos flasks from the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip 2:
Rent here.
Water bottles can be rented at the Crosstrek Rental store.
| Rental Tip 3:

# 3. Plastic Covers:
3. Plastic Covers:
Carry 3-4 old plastic covers to keep your used clothes. You could use them even for wet clothes. Re-use old plastic bags for this and do not buy new ones.
PRO TIPS
Keep important documents in a clear plastic cover and slide them into the inner pocket at the back of your backpack. This keeps them from getting wet. Please note there is no facility to get printouts and photocopies at Aru.
Your id and medical certificates must be kept ready 1 month in advance to get permission from State Tourism.

# Mandatory Documents
Mandatory Documents
These are documents required for legal purposes by Indiahikes and the forest department. Without any of these, you will not be allowed to trek.
Anything such as a driver’s license, Aadhar Card, or passport will do. This is required by the forest department for your identification.
Original and photocopy of government photo identity card.
Disclaimer certificate:
Download disclaimer certificate
You don't need to print or carry the disclaimer form. Your Trek Leader will give it to you at the base. Just sign and hand it over then and there. However, if you are a minor unaccompanied by your parents, please download this disclaimer, print it, get it signed by your parents/guardian and carry it to the basecamp. –
Download medical certificate
Medical certificate:
The medical certificate needs to be filled out by an MBBS doctor, without which the forest department will not issue permissions for your trek. It is also a requirement by Indiahikes –
. They will respond to you within 24 hours.
Indiahikes has a panel of doctors who can help you with a medical certificate. They are available for online consultation. To get in touch with them, please write to
trekmedicalcertificates@gmail.com
Consultation fee: Rs 350

# Personal Medical Kit
Personal Medical Kit
Carry these medicines with you, easily accessible at all times.
Do not take any medicine unless you have consulted your trek leader
(1 Strip): Be on a course of a half tablet of Diamox starting from Delhi every 12 hours (125 mg). Carry on the medication until you descend to Arram Pathri. Being on a preventive course of Diamox greatly reduces the chances of Acute Mountain Sickness on the Nafran Valley trek.
Diamox
(1 Strip): This is part of the Live Saving Drugs kit. Do not take this on your own. Your trek leader will inform you in case the need arises.
Dexamethasone
(5 tablets): Again part of the Live Saving Drugs kit. Do not take this on your own. Your trek leader will inform you in case the need arises.
Nifedipine
(5 tablets): This is a paracetamol. It helps to tackle fever, mild pain
Dolo 650
(4 tablets): Carry this especially if you are prone to motion sickness. Pop one-half hour before the start of your road journey.
Avomine
(5 tablets): Take a combiflam if you get a sudden twist of the leg or a muscle strain. It is a pain reliever. It also contains paracetamol.
Combiflam
(4 tablets): Take it if you feel the food that you’ve taken is undigested. Alert your trek leader immediately. It could be a sign of AMS.
Digene
(6 packs): Consume a pack of ORS water at least once a day, usually the mid-day when you are in the middle of your trek. It replenishes essential salts lost while trekking.
: It also makes cold water easier to drink.
ORS
Tip
(optional)
Carry this if you are prone to knee injury or have known issues of knee pain.
Knee Brace
. If there is an emergency our trek leaders know how to tackle it. Meanwhile, contact your trek leader before consuming any of these medicines listed here.
Life Saving Drugs
Our Trek Leaders carry a high altitude medical kit with them which also consist of
We find that these medicines by trekkers are rarely used. But you cannot do away with them. At the end of the trek please donate unused medicines to your trek leader. Some of these medicines get distributed to villages on the trek and some are added to the Indiahikes medical kit.
