Brahmatal Trek 2026 | Uttarakhand’s Favourite Lake Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Callback
Brahmatal Trek
Trek to a high-altitude lake in Mt Trishul's shadow
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Trek to a high altitude lake in Mt Trishul's shadow
Some of our top treks are favourites because of the mountain views they offer. Think of Chaukhambha from Deoriatal Chandrashila or Bandarpoonch from Dayara Bugyal. It is difficult to find such magnified views of big mountains like these.
However, Brahmatal is a trek that takes the cake. It has a view that beats all of these. It lays bare some of the most beautiful mountain views in India. You are surrounded by the impressive Mt. Trishul and Mt. Nanda Ghunti.
Watch here: A Trekker's Video of the Brahmatal Trek Shot in Winter
play video
The trek takes you through lovely forests and meadows, leading you to a peaceful high-altitude lake. You reap great rewards very quickly. On the second day of the trek, as you emerge from the dense rhododendron and oak forests, you are greeted by a wall of pristine white mountains. The impressive Trishul massif comes into view. As you continue your ascent to Jhandi Top, the views become even more magnificent, placing you at the heart of a spectacular mountain amphitheatre. The trek packs even better surprises at its highest point, the Brahmatal Top. A new set of peaks opens up before you. You see Mt Neelkanth and the Hathi-Gauri peaks. Trishul and Nanda Ghunti stand steadfast. Close and majestic. It’s as if you walk with the mountains throughout this trek.
Read more
expand overview
The trek takes you through lovely forests and meadows, leading you to a peaceful high-altitude lake. You reap great rewards very quickly. On the second day of the trek, as you emerge from the dense rhododendron and oak forests, you are greeted by a wall of pristine white mountains. The impressive Trishul massif comes into view. As you continue your ascent to Jhandi Top, the views become even more magnificent, placing you at the heart of a spectacular mountain amphitheatre. The trek packs even better surprises at its highest point, the Brahmatal Top. A new set of peaks opens up before you. You see Mt Neelkanth and the Hathi-Gauri peaks. Trishul and Nanda Ghunti stand steadfast. Close and majestic. It’s as if you walk with the mountains throughout this trek.
But the Brahmatal Trek is not just about mountain views. It also weaves through some of the finest Himalayan forests, serene lakes, and expansive ridges. Along the way, you experience a sense of timelessness. You walk on ridges that connect to iconic treks like Roopkund. You camp in secluded clearings and trek through trails that hold stories of legends.
Accessible to beginners yet rewarding for seasoned trekkers, it’s no wonder that Brahmatal has emerged as one of India’s most popular treks.
5 Things We Love About the Brahmatal Trek
1) High-Altitude Lakes
Not many of us know that the Brahmatal Trek takes you to not one but two magical high-altitude lakes. You trek to the Bekaltal lake, surrounded by dense forests of oak, on the very first day. It stands in complete contrast to the Brahmatal Lake, situated in a stark, alpine setting at the cradle of the big mountains.
2) Ridge Walk to Jhandi Top
One of the most unforgettable parts of the trek is the ridge walk from Tilandi to Jhandi Top. Emerging from the forest, you step onto an endless meadow. The Trishul massif stands tall like a wall of white before you. You’ll see villages like Deval and Tharali spread out below, while legendary mountain peaks dominate the skyline. These big mountains surround you throughout the trek. While we always talk about Nanda Ghunti and Trishul, the ridge walk from Tilandi to Brahmatal Top shows you many more. You stand a chance to see Mt Kamet, India’s third-highest peak, as well as a few peaks that pop out of Nepal, including Api Himal and Jethi Bahurani.
3) Glimpses of the Legendary Roopkund Trail
On the ridge walk to Jhandi Top from Tilandi, you get panoramic views of the Roopkund trek route. Right from the meadows of Ali and Bedni Bugyal to the dip in which the Roopkund tarn is located– you see the entire trail from a birds’ eye view.
4) The Enchanting Rhododendron Forests
The Brahmatal Trek offers some of the most stunning forest trails in the Himalayas. The centuries-old oak and rhododendron forests between Lohajung and Bekaltal are a trekker's paradise. In the rhododendron forest just beyond Bekaltal, trees twist and turn into captivating shapes. Their bare trunks form a smooth, wooden maze while the canopy above creates a natural roof. During spring (March and April), this roof is adorned with a burst of pink flowers.
5) The Gujreni Campsite
Nestled in a grassy clearing surrounded by forests, Gujreni offers a perfect mix of seclusion and openness. The campsite is ideal for unwinding after a day’s trek. It’s spacious enough for a stroll, but it also offers pockets of silence where you can sit and soak in the views of the towering peaks in the distance. The atmosphere here is serene, making it one of the most beloved campsites on the Brahmatal trek.
The Brahmatal Trek gives back much more than it demands. You get grand mountain views, beautiful meadow sections, and long ridge walks that lead to a stunning glacial lake. Every day on the trail has something exciting in store. Add to that a glimpse of the legendary Roopkund Trail, and it’s easy to see why this trek is on so many trekkers’ must-do lists.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Brahmatal : Take on the adventure of trekking to Brahmatal, trek to a high-altitude lake in Mt Trishul's shadow, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Lohajung Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Lohajung on Day 1 to dinner at Lohajung on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3000 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Brahmatal Trek - Complete Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Brahmatal trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Itinerary
A Route Map of the Brahmatal Trek
Day 1
Drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung
Drive distance : 270 km | Drive duration: 10-11 hr | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Pick up Time: 5.30 am | Location of Indiahikes Basecamp: Lohajung
It is a 10-11 hour drive from Rishikesh. Transport will be arranged from Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh at 5.30 am. The cost of a cab is Rs 1500/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Lohajung to Gujreni
Trek distance: 4.5 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude gain: 7,550 ft to 9,180 ft
Day 3
Trek from Gujreni to Tilandi
Trek distance: 2.9 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 9,180 ft to 10,495 ft
Day 4
Trek from Tilandi to Brahmatal via Brahmatal Top
Trek distance : 6 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Altitude loss: 10,495 ft to 10,190 ft via 12,250 ft
Day 5
Trek from Brahmatal to Lohajung
Trek distance: 8.45 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude loss: 10,190 ft to 7,550 ft
Day 6
Drive from Lohajung to Rishikesh
Drive distance : 270 km | Drive duration: 10-11 hr | Drop off Time: 7 pm
You will reach Rishikesh by 6-7 pm. The cost of a cab is Rs. 1500/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day) : Reach Lohajung
Drive Duration: 10- 11 hours drive from Rishikesh | Drive Distance: 270 km
Altitude: 7,550 ft (2,316 m)
Lohajung is the base camp for the Brahmatal trek. A great way to reach here is from Rishikesh. The drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung is picturesque. You drive through Devprayag, Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag, the confluence of Alakananda with Bhagirathi, Madakini and Pindari rivers respectively. You drive along mountain roads, and through forests. You also get glimpses of the Garhwal mountains in the distance on a clear day.
Once you reach Lohajung, you find yourself face to face with the beautiful Nanda Ghunti peak . If you reach before sunset, the colours of the peak will enthral you.
Lohajung is at the centre of 12-15 nearby villages. There are a couple of local stores where you can buy jackets, hand gloves, caps, shoes etc. if need be. However, it is advised that you carry all the required things for the trek beforehand and not rely on these shops. You will have a mobile network in most parts of Lohajung.
Read More
Lohajung is the base camp for the Brahmatal trek. A great way to reach here is from Rishikesh. The drive from Rishikesh to Lohajung is picturesque. You drive through Devprayag, Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag, the confluence of Alakananda with Bhagirathi, Madakini and Pindari rivers respectively. You drive along mountain roads, and through forests. You also get glimpses of the Garhwal mountains in the distance on a clear day.
Once you reach Lohajung, you find yourself face to face with the beautiful Nanda Ghunti peak . If you reach before sunset, the colours of the peak will enthral you.
Lohajung is at the centre of 12-15 nearby villages. There are a couple of local stores where you can buy jackets, hand gloves, caps, shoes etc. if need be. However, it is advised that you carry all the required things for the trek beforehand and not rely on these shops. You will have a mobile network in most parts of Lohajung.
Lohajung, as the locals say, is the place where Goddess Parvati had a war ( Jung ) with the demon, Lohasur. Hence, the name translates to ‘ War with Lohasur .’
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Lohajung to Gujreni
Trek distance: 4.6 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Altitude gain : 7,600 ft to 9,180 ft
Moderate; gradually ascending through forests on well-defined trails
Water sources: The first point where you can refill your water bottles will be around 3 hours into the trek, followed by another at the place where you stop for lunch
The trek begins from Lohajung central market ( chowk ). Move upwards from Bisht General Stores (compass direction 3000 NW) on the well-marked, human-made trail. Walkthrough the upper region of Lohajung and then through the forest trail with a few more houses. After a short trek, spot Mandoli village on your left.
As you climb higher, on your left, you will be able to see the Kali Valley , where Kali and Pindari Rivers join. Follow the water pipes that supply water to Lohajung, as they lie along the trek trail. After some time, cross a small cluster of homes called Budla , on the left. Here, you will find rhododendron trees, which make this part of the trail very beautiful from February to March.
At approx 8,500 ft, you will find a 10-metre bridge (known as Link-gaad ), which will help you cross the stream. After around two hours, you will reach Begum , where you can rest for some time. This place provides splendid views of Navali Bugyal (145o SSE) and Bagdi Bugyal (125o SE). After 10-15 minutes of walking from Begum, you will find another stream. From here, an hour’s walk will bring you to the Gujreni stream .
Read More
The trek begins from Lohajung central market ( chowk ). Move upwards from Bisht General Stores (compass direction 3000 NW) on the well-marked, human-made trail. Walkthrough the upper region of Lohajung and then through the forest trail with a few more houses. After a short trek, spot Mandoli village on your left.
As you climb higher, on your left, you will be able to see the Kali Valley , where Kali and Pindari Rivers join. Follow the water pipes that supply water to Lohajung, as they lie along the trek trail. After some time, cross a small cluster of homes called Budla , on the left. Here, you will find rhododendron trees, which make this part of the trail very beautiful from February to March.
At approx 8,500 ft, you will find a 10-metre bridge (known as Link-gaad ), which will help you cross the stream. After around two hours, you will reach Begum , where you can rest for some time. This place provides splendid views of Navali Bugyal (145o SSE) and Bagdi Bugyal (125o SE). After 10-15 minutes of walking from Begum, you will find another stream. From here, an hour’s walk will bring you to the Gujreni stream .
During winters, you camp at Gujreni.
“This campsite is surrounded by Green oak, brown oak, and rhododendrons. It’s inside a clearing and comparatively warmer as the sun rises around 8 and stays till 5 am. I liked this campsite because of the birds I saw. Namely Himalayan Woodpecker, Asian barred owlet, blue-fronted redstart, solitary snipe. I heard the barking dear too. I liked this campsite for its silence and seclusion, in between the forest, sun, and sound of the water stream next to the campsite,” says Ravi Ranjan Choudhary, Slope Manager at Indiahikes.
From here, the trail enters thick Oak forests and keeps climbing moderately. At sections where the mountainside is to your left and the valley to your right, catch the first views of Mt Trishul imposing itself on the horizon. An hour and a half through the forest climb you land at a flat with a small crater in the centre. At one end of the crater, the plateau is the valley of Deval. This place is called Khopdalia. It is a small dried lake. This is the campsite for Bekaltal which lies just above the campsite.
Bekaltal is a ten-minute trek up from Khopdalia. It lies surrounded by a thick cluster of Oak trees. The waters of Bekaltal are always brown. The brown water indicates a high amount of dissolved organic matter.
Typically, brown lakes are surrounded by forests or wetlands. Dense forests provide dark organic material that dissolves in lake water like a teabag. This dissolved organic material stains the water brown and shades the underwater world.
Overall, brown water lakes tend to be light-limited. The algae in these lakes survive through certain adaptations that allow them to adjust to low light levels. These lakes can also sometimes be acidic and contain few fish or other organisms.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Gujreni to Tilandi
Trek Distance : 2.9 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours
Altitude gain: 9,180 ft to 10,495 ft
Moderate. Initial steep climb for an hour brings you to a meadow where you ascend gently, followed by a gradual descent to Brahmatal.
Water sources: None. Make sure that you fill 2 litres of water before starting the trek since this will be a long day
Today is a short day. The trail starts off the campsite in the south-west direction. Just a few metres into the climb, you come across a stream crossing. From here, the trail climbs steeply into the Oak and Rhododendron forest . Notice that to your left is the ridge which opens up to the valley below. Immediately to your right below is Bekaltal.
As you climb on further, half the trail is dominated by Rhododendron trees and somewhere midway the Oak trees take over. After about an hour of a trek in this lovely forest section, the tree line ends and you enter the meadows. Right in front of you is the spectacular panorama of Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti with their associated ranges.
You are usually drawn to the edge of the meadows which is a ridge. This is your Tilandi campsite. Below you is the valley from Lohajung to Wan. Right opposite is the famous meadows of the Roopkund trail – Ali and Bedni Bugyals.
Read More
Today is a short day. The trail starts off the campsite in the south-west direction. Just a few metres into the climb, you come across a stream crossing. From here, the trail climbs steeply into the Oak and Rhododendron forest . Notice that to your left is the ridge which opens up to the valley below. Immediately to your right below is Bekaltal.
As you climb on further, half the trail is dominated by Rhododendron trees and somewhere midway the Oak trees take over. After about an hour of a trek in this lovely forest section, the tree line ends and you enter the meadows. Right in front of you is the spectacular panorama of Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti with their associated ranges.
You are usually drawn to the edge of the meadows which is a ridge. This is your Tilandi campsite. Below you is the valley from Lohajung to Wan. Right opposite is the famous meadows of the Roopkund trail – Ali and Bedni Bugyals.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Tilandi to Brahmatal via Brahmatal Top
Trek Distance : 5.5 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours
Altitude: 10,495 ft to 10,190 ft via 12,250 ft
Moderate. Walk along a long ridge.
Water sources: You’ll get enough water sources on the trail. Carry at least 2 litres of water when you start from Brahmatal.
This day’s trail weaves along the ridge. You see the treeline sometimes below you, sometimes beside you as you gain and drop height. The trees are largely Rhododendron or Oak again. Overall you gain height when you head to Jhandi Top, the highest point on the ridge. It’s another vantage point for clear views of the mountain panorama. You get spectacular views of Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti ranges from here. You can map the entire Roopkund trail here, right from Wan to Roopkund. Spend at least twenty minutes at Jhandi Top to soak in the place. It usually gives you goosebumps to comprehend what you see in front.
As you walk along the ridge, the majestic mountains and sweeping valleys greet you. You see at least 7 to 8 layers of mountain ranges, one behind another. The sense of openness is unmatchable to most trekking days anywhere.
From the Jhandi top, take the right trail, which is again a mountain ridge that gradually ascends to the Brahmatal Top at 12,250 ft, the highest point on this trek. The mountain views stay along with you as you walk on the ridge and reach the top. Spend some time and soak in the stunning views from the top.
Read More
This day’s trail weaves along the ridge. You see the treeline sometimes below you, sometimes beside you as you gain and drop height. The trees are largely Rhododendron or Oak again. Overall you gain height when you head to Jhandi Top, the highest point on the ridge. It’s another vantage point for clear views of the mountain panorama. You get spectacular views of Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti ranges from here. You can map the entire Roopkund trail here, right from Wan to Roopkund. Spend at least twenty minutes at Jhandi Top to soak in the place. It usually gives you goosebumps to comprehend what you see in front.
As you walk along the ridge, the majestic mountains and sweeping valleys greet you. You see at least 7 to 8 layers of mountain ranges, one behind another. The sense of openness is unmatchable to most trekking days anywhere.
From the Jhandi top, take the right trail, which is again a mountain ridge that gradually ascends to the Brahmatal Top at 12,250 ft, the highest point on this trek. The mountain views stay along with you as you walk on the ridge and reach the top. Spend some time and soak in the stunning views from the top.
The trail now gradually descends to Brahmatal.It’s a beautiful lake, the first view of which takes your breath away. There is a small Nag Devta Mandir next to it. If the lake is not frozen, you get a clear reflection of the night sky which is a stunning sight to witness.
The Brahmatal campsite at 12,250 ft is 500 meters away from the lake to the left on the edge of the slope. Do not miss to witness the sunset from the campsite.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Brahmatal to Lohajung
Trek distance: 8.45 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours
Altitude loss: 10,190 ft to 7,550 ft
Moderate. Descend all the way to Lohajung.
Begin the descent to Lohajung right after breakfast. Take a trail that goes straight from the Brahmatal lake. Till Jhandi Top,the vegetation is sparse. The mountains play hide and seek with you as you gradually ascend to the Jhandi Top.
From the Jhandi top, take the trail that goes left. From here, you descend all the way to Lohajung. Initially you descend through an open space, with the mountain views now behind you.
About a kilometre of a descent, you enter the treeline again. This is all Oak trees now. Soon, you come across a clearing. This is called Khorurai as “Khoru” translates to oak. Take some rest here. It could also be a possible campsite if you wish to extend your trek for one more day.
Read More
Begin the descent to Lohajung right after breakfast. Take a trail that goes straight from the Brahmatal lake. Till Jhandi Top,the vegetation is sparse. The mountains play hide and seek with you as you gradually ascend to the Jhandi Top.
From the Jhandi top, take the trail that goes left. From here, you descend all the way to Lohajung. Initially you descend through an open space, with the mountain views now behind you.
About a kilometre of a descent, you enter the treeline again. This is all Oak trees now. Soon, you come across a clearing. This is called Khorurai as “Khoru” translates to oak. Take some rest here. It could also be a possible campsite if you wish to extend your trek for one more day.
About another 1.3 km of a descent, you join the main trail. Descend further through Rhodo forest. .
Trail is well made all the way and crosses 2 streams in between.
After about an hour from starting, you will reach Shepherd huts. This place is the local language is also called ‘chawni’ and is used by villagers and shepherds to keep their livestock.
Continue on the man-made trail from here. This trail connects these mountain villages down to Lohajung.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6 (Drive-back Day): Lohajung to Rishikesh
Drive Duration: 10- 11 hours | Drive Distance: 270 km
Drive back to Rishikesh . Check out " How to reach the basecamp " section for more details about planning your return journey.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Drive back to Rishikesh . Check out " How to reach the basecamp " section for more details about planning your return journey.
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult is the Brahmatal Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy-Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 22 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 4,700 ft (7,550 ft to 12,250 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. But, they are mostly gradual and steady, except the summit climb on Day 4.
The Terrain:
Trekking in Brahmatal in winter can be tricky. As you step out of the campsite early in the morning, the snow is going to be hard, having frozen overnight. This snow section continues until you get to the Brahmatal top, getting steeper as you approach the summit.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Tilandi Campsite (2nd campsite) is known for fast and strong winds. Even without snowfall, strong winds can take a toll on you if you're not well-layered.
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Brahmatal Top is situated 12,250 ft above sea level, which is not a very high altitude. The gain in elevation is also gradual. But even then, acclimatization and ensuring adequate water intake is extremely important.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
There are multiple entry and exit points throughout the trek. In case of an emergency, medical or otherwise, the best way is to retrace your way back to Lohajung (basecamp).
Closest Hospital to the Brahmatal Trek:
There is a Primary Health Care Center in Dewal, about 30 km from the Indiahikes Lohajung Campus. However, it has very basic facilities. For more serious concerns, you need to approach the hospitals in Gopeshwar, the Headquarters of Chamoli District. It is about 120 km by road (4-hour drive) from Lohajung. Accessing the hospitals at Rudraprayag is faster since it is a downhill journey from Lohajung while Gopeshwar is an uphill drive.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Brahmatal Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Brahmatal Trek in Winter
Day time: Between 8 °C and 10 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -8 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow from the base camp towards the end of December. The entire landscape and valley will be in white
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
When most treks in the Himalayas shut during peak winters – January and February, Brahmatal stays accessible. It remains open from December to February and then into spring.
And that’s a treat because winter snow is heavenly on the Brahmatal trek. Although it makes the trek a notch more difficult. But the experience is still worth it.
In winters, oak and rhododendron trees stoop under the weight of the snow lending a Narnia-like vibe to the trek. And this happens as soon as you set off from Lohajung.
Apart from the snow, the sight of the frozen Bekaltal lake is mesmerising. Standing by it gives the impression of being frozen in time. But be careful about stepping on this frozen lake. Depending on the month, the ice may or may not be hard enough to support your weight.
Another highlight of winters is camping on the snow at Tilandi with spectacular sunrises and sunsets. Unlike autumn, now the vibrant colours are reflected on the white, snowy landscape.
And last year, trekkers filled their Instagram feeds with images of this campsite covered in snow. ( View Tilandi pics on Instagram )
On the flip side, Brahmatal lake or top may not be accessible in the peak winters due to snow. But regardless of that fact, you will be able to witness the beauty of this trek from the ridge and the Tilandi campsite. And that’s fulfilling in itself. Read this article to know why you must do the Brahmatal trek in winter.
Brahmatal Trek in Autumn
Day time: Between 10 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -5 °C
Presence of snow: You will not find any snow in the autumn season
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
The flowers you witnessed in spring would have wilted and vanished in autumn, leaving a dark canopy of the rhododendron and oak trees. In this season, the trees start shedding leaves, offering a distinct crunch to your step as you walk over them.
With that setting in place, look up at the mountain views. They’re the highlight in autumn, at their clearest post-monsoon when the air is free from haze.
In this season, watch out for the ridge that Sandhya mentioned earlier in the trek guide. This ridge runs parallel to Ali Bugyal of the famed Roopkund trail. From here you can see the grand Trishul range rise over Asia’s largest meadow. It is a breathtaking experience.
Further up the trek, as you reach Jhandi top, brilliant mountain views of Mt Chaukhamba, Mt Neelkanth, and Mt Hathi Ghoda open up under the blue autumn sky.
There’s one more aspect of autumn that not many talks about, sunrises and sunsets . They are the most vibrant during autumn. Especially at the Tilandi campsite , simply because it is situated on the ridge.
Words fall short, but watch out for the sunset when you reach Tilandi. It is a dramatic affair. The sun splashes vibrant crimson hues across the sky. And the next morning, wake up early to watch the golden sunrise on the other side.
Lastly, autumn is also a great season if you like empty trails . But it’s not empty for the whole of autumn. For a quiet experience, aim for dates after Dusshera/Diwali vacation and before winter sets in. During this time the Brahmatal trail is at its emptiest.
Brahmatal Trek in Spring
Day time: Between 15 °C and 18 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and 5 °C
Great time to experience the last of the winter snow. The snow starts to recede from the lower campsites when spring sets. The upper reaches of Brahmatal are still under snow
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
While Deoriatal-Chandrashila pops up in discussions when we talk about rhododendrons, not many know that Brahmatal too is a charming trek to do in spring. Its slopes are lined with rhododendrons (Buransh). And in spring, the slopes look fiery with rhodos blooming dark pink and crimson. Imagine this in the backdrop of receding snow!
But you won’t see these flowers throughout the trek. Although, you may start spotting lonesome trees in bloom from Lohajung itself!
After that, as you begin your trek, watch out for the section between Bekaltal and Tilandi. Here, just as you step out of Bekaltal, you enter a rhodo forest and the blooming flowers form a canopy over your head as you trek.
Finally, watch out for rhodos towards the end of the trek, around Khorurai.
For a magical experience, trek to Brahmatal in early spring (March). So that you get to trek on snow even as you see the flowers in bloom. During this time, you will find snow in sections upwards of Tilandi. As the season goes by, snow recedes to the higher altitude, around the Brahmatal lake which lies at 12,250 ft.
By mid-April, most of the snow on the trail and around it has melted.
| Note: Although you can access Brahmatal in summers, it’s not a great season to experience the trek. During monsoons, the trek becomes inaccessible due to the rains. That brings us to the next season – autumn.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Brahmatal Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Lohajung is the base camp of the Brahmatal Trek. Lohajung is a small village located in the Chamoli district in the Garhwal Himalayas. It is around 8-9 hours by road from Rishikesh .
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5.15 am from Live Free Hostel .
Arrive in Rishikesh by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Rishikesh by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rishikesh:
How to reach Rishikesh? Rishikesh does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rishikesh is to:
Fly to Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun , which is about 1-hour away from Rishikesh
Fly to Delhi and take a train to Haridwar (30 km from Rishikesh )
Fly to Delhi and take an overnight bus to Rishikesh.
How to reach Rishikesh by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Rishikesh.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Rishikesh by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Haridwar. From Haridwar, it is just 30 km to Rishikesh.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Rishikesh by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Rishikesh on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Karchi the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Rishikesh:
You can retrace the same journey back from Rishikesh to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Lohajung on your own:
While there is one direct bus from Rishikesh to Lohajung, there are many other ways to reach Lohajung on your own as well.
Option 1: Direct Bus from Rishikesh
There is one direct bus from Rishikesh to Lohajung. It leaves Rishikesh at 5 AM.
Reaches Lohajung at 5 PM.
Option 2: Rishikesh to Karnprayag and onwards to Lohajung
From Rishikesh, take a bus or shared cab to Karnprayag (6-7 hours),
From Karnprayag, you’ll find shared jeeps going to Debal.
From Debal, you get shared transport to Lohajung.
Option 3: Kathgodam to Lohajung by Shared Jeeps
You can also access Lohajung via Kathgodam.
From Kathgodam, you get shared jeeps going to Debal via Almora and Gwaldam.
From Debal, you’ll get shared jeeps to Lohajung.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for the Brahmatal Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Brahmatal Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Brahmatal Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Brahmatal Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 40 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Is Brahmatal trek safe? expand accordion
Yes, the Brahmatal trek is safe and is regarded as a beginner-friendly trek with multiple exit points. The Indiahikes team is extensively trained and equipped to handle any medical emergencies that you might encounter on the trek. However, a lot depends upon your pre-trek preparations. Read this article to learn why you need to take safety on treks more seriously.
How fit do I need to be to do the Brahmatal trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Brahmatal requires a good fitness level . The trek has long climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 40 minutes before your trek. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us. Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
Which is better, Brahmatal or Kedarkantha trek? expand accordion
​​Both treks offer very different experiences. In winter, Brahmatal is the only trek that takes you to an alpine lake, whereas Kedarkantha offers you an adventurous summit climb. Brahmatal has beautiful oak and rhododendron forest sections whereas Kedarkantha forests are dominated by coniferous trees. Brahmatal offers a close view of two of the most celebrated mountain peaks in India: Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti. Kedarkantha offers 360-degree views of valleys and mountains including Mt Swargarohini, Bandarpoonch massif and Mt Kalanag.
How long is the Brahmatal Trek? expand accordion
Covering a total distance of 21.5 km, the Brahmatal trek is a 4-day long trek. It takes you from 7,550 ft to 12,250 ft and back.
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 40 minutes.
What is the style of accommodation on this trek? expand accordion
Brahmatal is a 6-day trek. The stay on Day 1 and Day 5, at Lohajung, will be in the Indiahikes Community Campus, where you will share rooms with fellow trekkers. Stay on all other days of the trek in tents. Each tent accommodates 2 trekkers. Sufficient number of toilet tents will be set up for the convenience of trekkers.
When will there be snow on this trek? expand accordion
You are likely to find snow on this trail in December, January and February. Sometimes, you can get lucky and find snow well into March. By the start of April, most of the snow on the trail and around it has melted.
Can I take my child along on this trek? What is the age limit? expand accordion
Brahmatal is an easy-moderate trek but requires trekkers to be physically fit. The minimum age for eligibility is 7 years. If your child meets this criterion and is physically fit, you can take her/him along.
What are the washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
The guest house at Lohajung will have concrete toilets.
During the trek, toilet tents will be set up along each campsite. There will be 2 to 4 of these toilet tents depending on the size of the group. A toilet tent will have a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. This is the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild.
Please use plain toilet paper and refrain from using wet wipes since these are not biodegradable.
What Happens To Your Poop in the Mountains? | Green Trails | Indiahikes
Is there a mobile network & electricity on this trek? expand accordion
You will get mobile signals at Lohajung for most networks. Signals will be intermittent in the mountains. So finish all your important calls at Lohajung and inform anxious family members about limited phone connectivity.
As per electricity, The last charging point would be at our basecamp in Lohajung. However, come prepared for the possibility of power cuts at Lohajung.
Which is the nearest ATM to Brahmatal? expand accordion
Rishikesh is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp. If you are planning to visit other attractions after the trek, we advise you to carry more.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp in Lohajung? expand accordion
Since you will be starting and returning to the guest house at Lohajung, it is possible for you to leave some luggage behind, if required. However, make sure you do not leave any valuables - Indiahikes is not responsible for loss or damage to any belongings.
What are the places of interest that I can visit before or after the trek? expand accordion
You can spend time exploring tourist attractions around Rishikesh, Bhimtal, or Kausani. Please note that these are suggestions and Indiahikes does not make any arrangements for visiting them.
Is offloading available on the Brahmatal Trek? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Brahmatal trek is Rs 1,600 without tax for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.