Buran Ghati Trek 2026 | India’s Most Dramatic Wall Descent Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Callback
Buran Ghati Trek
A Grand Buffet Of India's Greatest Treks
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have expert Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
Ancient Villages of Janglik and Barua: Your trek starts at Janglik and ends in Barua. These are ancient Himachali villages– wood-and-stone houses, fruit-bearing trees, narrow alleyways. Almost all trekkers wish they could build a home here.
Camping On the Dayara Meadows: The dense coniferous forest ends without warning, and the Dayara meadows open up — wide, rolling, not a rock out of place. We believe it is among our 7 most iconic campsites .
Exploring the Chandranahan Valley: To acclimatise better, we walk past the Chandranahan Waterfall and into the valley above, where the Chandranahan Lake greets us. It’s beautiful enough to be a trek on its own.
Rappelling Down an Ice Wall: The pass rises like a wall from Dhunda camp. In the snow season, you rappel down a sheer frozen face of ice. There is nothing like it on any of our other Himalayan treks.
A Grand Buffet Of The Greatest Himalayan Treks
Every trek has its extraordinary sections. Every trek also has sections that are, we grudgingly admit, a little imperfect. Buran Ghati is the rare exception. It feels like someone handpicked the finest elements from India's grandest treks and assembled them into a single journey.
You'd know Har ki Dun for its culture, Kashmir for its grand meadows, Rupin Pass for climbing to the top of a waterfall, and Pin Bhaba for its thrilling summit push. At Buran Ghati, in just six trekking days, you get a piece of all of them.
play video
The trek kicks off from Janglik, remote, secluded, and as rich in culture as the famous villages of Har ki Dun. By the time you reach Dayara, wide alpine meadows have opened up around you. On your Chandranahan Lakes day, you climb to the top of a waterfall and explore the valley beyond it. And the climax, the summit push from Dhunda, mirrors Pin Bhaba in every way. From the pass rising like a wall in front of you, an early start, a climb through moraine and scree to 15,000 ft. In the snow season, the descent is even more dramatic. You rappel down a frozen wall of ice.
Read more
expand overview
The trek kicks off from Janglik, remote, secluded, and as rich in culture as the famous villages of Har ki Dun. By the time you reach Dayara, wide alpine meadows have opened up around you. On your Chandranahan Lakes day, you climb to the top of a waterfall and explore the valley beyond it. And the climax, the summit push from Dhunda, mirrors Pin Bhaba in every way. From the pass rising like a wall in front of you, an early start, a climb through moraine and scree to 15,000 ft. In the snow season, the descent is even more dramatic. You rappel down a frozen wall of ice.
Treks that offer this kind of variety are usually much more difficult. But apart from the pass-crossing day, Buran Ghati is easy-moderate throughout.
At Indiahikes, we often call it the most “complete trek” in the Himalayas. And it’s not a claim we make lightly. The variety of scenery, the adventure of crossing a high-altitude pass, and cultural richness make it an unforgettable experience. Whether you’re trekking in summer or autumn, Buran Ghati never disappoints.
What We Love About the Buran Ghati Trek
1) Dayara Meadows: The first time you step into Dayara Meadows, you’ll feel like you’ve walked into a postcard. This vast, green tableland stretches endlessly, framed by mountain slopes on one side and dramatic gorges on the other. Horses gallop freely across the meadow. Camping here on Day 1 is an unforgettable experience, and it’s easily one of the most beautiful meadow settings in the Himalayas.
2) The Thrill of the Buran Ghati Wall: Reaching the Buran Ghati wall, standing tall at 15,000 feet, is an adventure in itself. The climb is steep and exciting, but the real thrill comes on the other side—rappelling down a wall of ice. It’s not just about crossing the pass; it’s the sheer adrenaline of the descent that stays with you. For adventure seekers, this is a highlight of the trek.
3) Ancient Villages of Janglik and Barua: The trek is bookended by two stunning villages. Janglik, at the start, is like stepping into another era, where life remains untouched by modernity. On the other end, Barua is a delightful surprise. Walking through its narrow alleys, surrounded by ancient architecture and fruit-laden trees, feels like you’ve entered a storybook. These villages add a unique cultural dimension to the trek.
4) The Litham Campsite and Chandranahan Lake: The Litham campsite is nestled at the confluence of two valleys. The highlight here is the towering Chandranahan waterfalls, cascading down from a glacier in the distance. The cherry on the top is that you spend an extra day here to acclimate and explore the valley above these waterfalls. Chandranahan Lake. Not many know that at one point, we used to run this as a standalone trek, to Chandranahan Glaciers and back.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Buran Ghati : Take on the beautiful trek to Buran Ghati, which almost feels like a grand buffet of India's greatest treks, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Janglik: Experience the rich culture of Himachal by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from lunch at Janglik on Day 1 to breakfast at Barua on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs. You will also be accompanied by special Technical Guides in tricky sections on the trek.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
On Day 1, pick-up from Rohru to Janglik costs Rs. 1150 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
On Day 7, the drop-off to Shimla, ISBT from Barua costs Rs. 2400 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way. These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.4800 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Buffer day on the trek
We have kept a buffer day on the trek to account for any weather-related delay. If this is utilised, you will need to pay Rs 2,500 + 5% GST. This amount is to be handed over to your trek leader.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Buran Ghati - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Buran Ghati trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find these extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Itinerary
A route map of the Buran Ghati trek
Day 1
Drive from Rohru to Janglik (9,415 ft)
Drive distance: 40 km | Drive Duration: 3 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Shaktan Homestay Rohru | Pick up Time: 9.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Janglik
Transport will be organised from Shaktan Homestay Rohru at 9.30 AM. The cost of cab will be Rs. 1150 per trekker (additional 5% GST) for the transfer from Rohru to Janglik . These are non-AC SUV vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Note: Your will receive your rentals and deposit your cloakroom luggage (if any) at Rohru itself.
Day 2
Trek from Janglik to Dayara
Trek Distance: 7.5 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude gain: 9,415 ft to 11,115 ft
Day 3
Trek from Dayara to Litham
Trek Distance: 5.9 km | Trek Duration: 3-4 hours | Altitude gain: 11,115 ft to 11,485 ft
Day 4
Acclimatisation hike to Chandranahan Lake
Trek Distance: 6.9 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 11,485 ft to 13,020 ft and back to 11,485 ft
Day 5
Trek from Litham to Dhunda
Trek Distance: 4.6 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain: 11,485 ft to 13,425 ft
Day 6
Trek from Dhunda to River campsite via Buran Ghati
Trek Distance: 8.4 km | Trek Duration: 9-10 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 13,425 ft to 15,000 ft to 10,745 ft
Day 7
Trek from River campsite to Barua. Drive to Shimla.
Trek Distance: 7.15 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude loss: 10,745 ft to 7,725 ft | Drive Distance: 207 km | Drive Duration: 6-7 hours | Drop off point: Shimla, ISBT .
Rental and cloakroom returns will take place at Rampur on the way back to Shimla. If you are not opting for Indiahikes Transport, you still need to come to Rampur to collect your cloakroom or return your rental items.
Transport from Barua to Shimla will be arranged to start at 1.00 PM. You will reach Shimla around 11 pm. The cost of cab will be Rs. 2400 per trekker (additional 5% GST) for the transfer from Barua to Shimla . These are non-AC SUV vehicles.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on weather conditions and your route. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Day 8
Buffer Day
This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 2,500 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Rohru to Janglik
Drive Duration: 3 hour drive | Drive Distance: 40 km
Vehicles will be arranged from the pick-up point at Shaktan Homestay Rohru at 9.30 am.
Altitude: 9,415 ft (2,804 m)
Highlights: You'll love the drive to Janglik! It follows the old Hindustan road which has history written all over it. After Theog, the road slips to the other side of the hills. You would reach Rohru from here. The turquoise/teal Pabbar River would be gushing to the right through your drive. The beautiful green valleys start opening up. The high peaks start to be visible from this point onwards.
The base camp of the Buran Ghati trek is Janglik . The drive from Rohru follows the blue waters of the Pabbar River. In an exquisite journey, the road climbs gracefully along the Pabbar, the scenery changing rapidly. From square wheat fields along the river and beautiful Himachali homes, you drive past pretty villages and mixed forests until you get to the pine forests around Tangnu.
The motorable road at Tikri, just after Chirgaon, turns left and becomes an absolute dirt track for the rest of the way. It takes two hours along the dirt track to get to Tangnu. At Tangnu, the dirt track drops down to the river, crosses the Pabbar, and climbs to Diude in swift switchbacks. Janglik is a short walk from Diude.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
The base camp of the Buran Ghati trek is Janglik . The drive from Rohru follows the blue waters of the Pabbar River. In an exquisite journey, the road climbs gracefully along the Pabbar, the scenery changing rapidly. From square wheat fields along the river and beautiful Himachali homes, you drive past pretty villages and mixed forests until you get to the pine forests around Tangnu.
The motorable road at Tikri, just after Chirgaon, turns left and becomes an absolute dirt track for the rest of the way. It takes two hours along the dirt track to get to Tangnu. At Tangnu, the dirt track drops down to the river, crosses the Pabbar, and climbs to Diude in swift switchbacks. Janglik is a short walk from Diude.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Janglik to Dayara
Duration: 5 hours
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 1,875 (9,415 ft to 11,115 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. The trek starts with an ascent followed by a gradual walk. The trek then takes you through the lovely pine section for about an hour before entering the meadows.
Highlights: Trek from the beautiful Janglik village towards the pine forests. You get a treat through shady trees of the forest, and streams running across the trail. You get blown by the first sight of the Dayara campsite. Explore the campsite and look at the sheep, and horses grazing the lush meadows.
Today’s trek is perhaps the most beautiful first day of any trek that you will walk on. Climb out of Janglik past the superbly crafted wheat fields – lined by beautiful wooden farmhouses on their edges — some of them with attractive roofs in red and green. The climb, though beautiful, gains altitude rapidly.
The ledge under a pine tree is a wonderful place to take a break. Fifteen minutes later, past a clearing on your right, the trail climbs into an oak and pine forest. Getting deeper into the forest, the steep trail levels off to remain a gradual pleasant climb. The trail through the forest is just the treat that you needed after the long climb. Under the shady trees of the forest, streams running across the trail bring a bounce to your step.
A half-hour later, the trail pops out of the tree line into a vast expanse of meadows climbing into the hills to your left. The sudden change in scenery is startling. It takes time to soak in the view of the climbing meadows to your left and the dark shadowy tree line of the pines to your right. Ahead, the white snow patches that remain in the folds of the cliffs opposite the Pabbar complement the view to an extent that is hard to believe.
Read More
Today’s trek is perhaps the most beautiful first day of any trek that you will walk on. Climb out of Janglik past the superbly crafted wheat fields – lined by beautiful wooden farmhouses on their edges — some of them with attractive roofs in red and green. The climb, though beautiful, gains altitude rapidly.
The ledge under a pine tree is a wonderful place to take a break. Fifteen minutes later, past a clearing on your right, the trail climbs into an oak and pine forest. Getting deeper into the forest, the steep trail levels off to remain a gradual pleasant climb. The trail through the forest is just the treat that you needed after the long climb. Under the shady trees of the forest, streams running across the trail bring a bounce to your step.
A half-hour later, the trail pops out of the tree line into a vast expanse of meadows climbing into the hills to your left. The sudden change in scenery is startling. It takes time to soak in the view of the climbing meadows to your left and the dark shadowy tree line of the pines to your right. Ahead, the white snow patches that remain in the folds of the cliffs opposite the Pabbar complement the view to an extent that is hard to believe.
The trail out of the tree line descends gradually, skirting the top of the pines. The trail is well-defined and broad. Almost an hour later, the trail enters another magnificent forest of pine and oak — this time thicker and denser. The walk on the dark moist earth and the brown carpet of leaves strewn over them is a moment to be cherished. Through the forest, the trail climbs gradually before popping out of it again in another half hour to reach the stunning Dayara campsite.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Dayara to Litham
Duration: 3-4 hours
Altitude loss: 11,115 ft to 11,485 ft
Difficulty: Easy. Gradual descent and ascent through forest section followed by a trek through the meadows section.
Highlights: Watch out for the lovely silver birch section and the small forest section before you hit the meadows and approach the bigger mountains. Enjoy the sounds of the Pabbar River at the campsite.
Start your day exploring the Dayara meadows early in the morning. It looks most glamorous as it soaks up the golden glow of the morning sun. A walk on the meadows early in the morning needs to be savoured by every trekker.
The trail from Dayara to Litham will take you through dense forests, wide green meadows, gushing streams, and little brooks as you gain an altitude of 737 feet in 3 hours. The trail traverses across the meadows towards the Gunas Pass. A gently ascending trail enters another clump of pine forest fifteen minutes out of the Dayara campsite. Then you get to a stream that needs to leap over.
Across the stream, the trail climbs out of the forest and rounds a wide curve to regain the views of the snow-capped mountains of the Dhauladhar range and Gunas Pass. Just as the trail takes the curve is a superb scenery of the grasslands leading down from the trail and into the dark depths of pine forests about 300 feet below. Behind the pine forests are snow-lined towering cliffs completing a scenery that is perfect in its harmony.
Read More
Start your day exploring the Dayara meadows early in the morning. It looks most glamorous as it soaks up the golden glow of the morning sun. A walk on the meadows early in the morning needs to be savoured by every trekker.
The trail from Dayara to Litham will take you through dense forests, wide green meadows, gushing streams, and little brooks as you gain an altitude of 737 feet in 3 hours. The trail traverses across the meadows towards the Gunas Pass. A gently ascending trail enters another clump of pine forest fifteen minutes out of the Dayara campsite. Then you get to a stream that needs to leap over.
Across the stream, the trail climbs out of the forest and rounds a wide curve to regain the views of the snow-capped mountains of the Dhauladhar range and Gunas Pass. Just as the trail takes the curve is a superb scenery of the grasslands leading down from the trail and into the dark depths of pine forests about 300 feet below. Behind the pine forests are snow-lined towering cliffs completing a scenery that is perfect in its harmony.
A half hour later the trail dives into another beautiful forest — this time of Silver Birch (Bhoj). The forest is old and the silver birches are gnarled with age. Descending gently through the forest leads to another perennial stream in the fold of the mountain. Refresh here and climb out of the fold to your first clear view of Litham.
Across the meadows, the trail dips to the Chandranahan stream that you need to cross before throwing down your backpacks at the Litham campsite. There are plenty of brooks running across Litham, choose a flat spot and good views to settle down for the day.
Litham has gorgeous views on three sides. On your left is the snout of the Chandranahan waterfall, beyond which is the Chandranahan lake. In front are the towering snow-clad mountains that hide Buran Ghati but set the heart fluttering in anticipation of a great adventure ahead. On the right are the snow-patched cliffs that hide the Rupin Valley. The Litham campsite is a dramatic nest, the last of the great meadows of the trek.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Acclimatisation hike to Chandranahan lake
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours
Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,485 ft to 13,020 ft and back
Difficulty: Moderate-Difficult. Steeper ascent to the snout of the waterfall and walking through the valley with a series of lakes. The steep descent on the way back to Litham.
Highlights: Exciting day hike without your backpack to the snout of the waterfall and then towards a series of glacial lakes. Do not forget to turn back to see a change in scenery as you enter the alpine region.
The Chandranahan lake is a glacial tarn that is perennially fed by snow flanks of mountains that surround it. It is not a very big lake, but getting to it is an exciting journey and extremely rewarding.
Cross the stream that you get just before the Litham campsite. Continue upstream on the shepherd’s trail to a ridge top. Walk towards the snout of the waterfall from where the stream emerges. It takes about an hour and a half to get to the snout of the waterfall, marked by beautifully placed stone cairns.
Trekkers usually assume that Chandranahan lake is close to the snout of the waterfall but it is another hour of a trek into the glacial valley. The journey to the lake takes a difficult turn the moment you get to the flat at the snout of the waterfall. The closed alpine valley with snow patches all around is a treat. In later June, the valley floor has good amounts of snow but nothing difficult to walk on.
Read More
The Chandranahan lake is a glacial tarn that is perennially fed by snow flanks of mountains that surround it. It is not a very big lake, but getting to it is an exciting journey and extremely rewarding.
Cross the stream that you get just before the Litham campsite. Continue upstream on the shepherd’s trail to a ridge top. Walk towards the snout of the waterfall from where the stream emerges. It takes about an hour and a half to get to the snout of the waterfall, marked by beautifully placed stone cairns.
Trekkers usually assume that Chandranahan lake is close to the snout of the waterfall but it is another hour of a trek into the glacial valley. The journey to the lake takes a difficult turn the moment you get to the flat at the snout of the waterfall. The closed alpine valley with snow patches all around is a treat. In later June, the valley floor has good amounts of snow but nothing difficult to walk on.
The lake is not very big but what it lacks in size, it makes up for it by its setting. Nestled in a bowl-like glacial amphitheatre, the lake is fed by the snowfields all around. In between are grassy patches that jut out of the snow. Tiny waterfalls that turn into brooks trickle down to the lake from all sides. Lovely arrangements of stone cairns mark the lake. Spend time taking in the sights of the setting before heading back to Litham the way you came. It is a steep descent from the lake to Litham. You must start early in the morning to be back at Litham at lunch.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Litham to Dhunda
Duration: 4-5 hours
Altitude Gain: 11,485 ft to 13,425 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent for about 1.5 hours followed by a steep ascent all the way to Dhunda.
Highlights: Your day takes you from the meadow region towards the alpine zone. The view of the Buran Ghati Pass and Gunas Pass gives you butterflies in your tummy with nervous excitement for the big day.
Buran Ghati is a trek that can be easy or difficult depending on where you camp for the passing assault. Dhunda at 13,300 ft is perfect. It is about 3-4 hours of climb to the pass. The pass is always visible and inspirational. The setting is extraordinary.
The Dhauladhar range looms over the trail with the Gunas pass sitting pretty on top of the snowy flanks of the grey mountains. It is a monochrome setting of grey and white in front with the green grasslands of Litham to the left and cliffs of the bordering Rupin valley to the right. The Pabbar is no longer a gently descending stream. It is now a virulent stream descending rapidly. The trail takes a sharper ascent. Continue up the left bank until the trail gets into a U-shaped gorge-like valley and you get the first view of the Buran Ghati on your left. Take a moment to take in the splendour of the pass and the upcoming thrill of the next day.
Start the climb to Dhunda by following the well-marked shepherds’ trail that leads in the general direction of the pass. An hour of climb, perhaps a bit more, will bring you to the ridge top of Dhunda. At Dhunda you get absolutely clear views of Buran Ghati and the trail that leads to it. The camp is in an alpine zone. Snow-capped mountains flank the campsite on all sides. Even in late June snow patches are everywhere. If any campsite can give you the beauty of an alpine mountain zone and the thrill of a splendid climb to come, then Dhunda would be voted among the best.
Read More
Buran Ghati is a trek that can be easy or difficult depending on where you camp for the passing assault. Dhunda at 13,300 ft is perfect. It is about 3-4 hours of climb to the pass. The pass is always visible and inspirational. The setting is extraordinary.
The Dhauladhar range looms over the trail with the Gunas pass sitting pretty on top of the snowy flanks of the grey mountains. It is a monochrome setting of grey and white in front with the green grasslands of Litham to the left and cliffs of the bordering Rupin valley to the right. The Pabbar is no longer a gently descending stream. It is now a virulent stream descending rapidly. The trail takes a sharper ascent. Continue up the left bank until the trail gets into a U-shaped gorge-like valley and you get the first view of the Buran Ghati on your left. Take a moment to take in the splendour of the pass and the upcoming thrill of the next day.
Start the climb to Dhunda by following the well-marked shepherds’ trail that leads in the general direction of the pass. An hour of climb, perhaps a bit more, will bring you to the ridge top of Dhunda. At Dhunda you get absolutely clear views of Buran Ghati and the trail that leads to it. The camp is in an alpine zone. Snow-capped mountains flank the campsite on all sides. Even in late June snow patches are everywhere. If any campsite can give you the beauty of an alpine mountain zone and the thrill of a splendid climb to come, then Dhunda would be voted among the best.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Dhunda to River camp via Buran Ghati
Duration: 9-10 hours
Altitude Gain and Loss: 13,425 ft to 10,745 ft via 15,000 ft
Difficulty: Difficult. Gentle ascent of about an hour to the base of the pass followed by an hour’s steep climb on snow. Sharp, steep descent on the other side for about 100 meters followed by a series of short descents for about 2 hours till the end of the snow line, easing off into a gradual descent.
Highlights: The adventurous climb to the Buran Ghati. What's more adventurous is the descent from the pass to the other side. In summer, it's about 400 metres of rappelling down through a steep ice wall. In autumn, it's a steep descent to through the boulders..
Out of the Dhunda campsite follow the ridge and hop over boulders towards the base of the pass. From the base, it is an hour-long climb to the top, mostly on snow. Buran Ghati at exactly 15,000 ft is a thrilling climb. It is a narrow ledge on the top. The drop on the other side is sharp and steep. Without the rope, the descent can be risky even with an ice axe. Getting down to the first snowfield about 100 metres below the pass is your first objective. Thereafter it is a series of descents over smaller ledges that you can slide down!
Descending on the Buran Ghati trek is quick and very soon you lose all the altitude that you have gained. It takes about 2 hours to get to the end of the snow line. You also lose about 3,000 ft in altitude. Out of the snow line, the descent takes you down a ridge with junipers and lovely flower crested shrubs. The view of the valley in front is lush green as far as the eye can see. Beyond, a long range of mountains towers over the setting.
Descend for another hour to get to a stream that needs to be hopped over. Across the stream, the first farmers’ huts appear. This is where you camp for the night next to the river.
Read More
Out of the Dhunda campsite follow the ridge and hop over boulders towards the base of the pass. From the base, it is an hour-long climb to the top, mostly on snow. Buran Ghati at exactly 15,000 ft is a thrilling climb. It is a narrow ledge on the top. The drop on the other side is sharp and steep. Without the rope, the descent can be risky even with an ice axe. Getting down to the first snowfield about 100 metres below the pass is your first objective. Thereafter it is a series of descents over smaller ledges that you can slide down!
Descending on the Buran Ghati trek is quick and very soon you lose all the altitude that you have gained. It takes about 2 hours to get to the end of the snow line. You also lose about 3,000 ft in altitude. Out of the snow line, the descent takes you down a ridge with junipers and lovely flower crested shrubs. The view of the valley in front is lush green as far as the eye can see. Beyond, a long range of mountains towers over the setting.
Descend for another hour to get to a stream that needs to be hopped over. Across the stream, the first farmers’ huts appear. This is where you camp for the night next to the river.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 7: Trek from River Camp to Barua, Drive to Shimla
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Drive Duration: 6-7 hours
Altitude Loss: 10,745 ft to 7,725 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Gradual descent for around 4 hours followed by a steeper descent to reach the village of Barua.
Highlights: The trail is full of surprising changes in scenery that make it an absolute delight. It is difficult to find another trek that has so much diversity in forests while descending. Watch out for the maple, and walnut trees as you trek towards the apple orchards. Also, watch out for the houses built with stones and wood, a small waterfall, and while entering Barua village.
The descent to the Barua village is remarkable for the variety in vegetation and diversity. The trail is full of surprising changes in scenery that make it an absolute delight. It is difficult to find another trek that has so much diversity while descending. Take the path that logically follows the Barua Khud. Stick to the trail that is broadest and most used. The trail descends rapidly through the high-altitude pines, giving way to mixed forests of other trees.
An hour and a half later the trail descends to a large gushing stream thundering to meet the Barua Khud. A makeshift bridge lined with junipers and mud is the only way across. Climbing out of the stream, the trail is greeted with more diverse vegetation. Late in June, lovely purple shrubs line the trail on either side. Further on apricot, peach trees laded with fruit crowd the trail. An hour later the first apple orchards and signs of civilization await the trekkers. From an overhanging rock on the trail, the entire view of the Barua village sitting on the ridge below is breathtaking.
Half an hour later the trail enters Barua village through an arch. It is a long descent through the village as the trail meanders and descends. Life on the trail comes alive as the simple villagers are happy to see you. They want to hear your stories and invite you to tea. Look out for the grand temple on your right as you continue your descent. From time to time the trail rushes past apple and other fruit orchards.
Read More
The descent to the Barua village is remarkable for the variety in vegetation and diversity. The trail is full of surprising changes in scenery that make it an absolute delight. It is difficult to find another trek that has so much diversity while descending. Take the path that logically follows the Barua Khud. Stick to the trail that is broadest and most used. The trail descends rapidly through the high-altitude pines, giving way to mixed forests of other trees.
An hour and a half later the trail descends to a large gushing stream thundering to meet the Barua Khud. A makeshift bridge lined with junipers and mud is the only way across. Climbing out of the stream, the trail is greeted with more diverse vegetation. Late in June, lovely purple shrubs line the trail on either side. Further on apricot, peach trees laded with fruit crowd the trail. An hour later the first apple orchards and signs of civilization await the trekkers. From an overhanging rock on the trail, the entire view of the Barua village sitting on the ridge below is breathtaking.
Half an hour later the trail enters Barua village through an arch. It is a long descent through the village as the trail meanders and descends. Life on the trail comes alive as the simple villagers are happy to see you. They want to hear your stories and invite you to tea. Look out for the grand temple on your right as you continue your descent. From time to time the trail rushes past apple and other fruit orchards.
Once at the heart of the village, the descent is more rapid. In half an hour the trail pops out onto the road bridge over the Barua Khud. Transport will be arranged to leave from Barua to Shimla at 1.00 pm and you will reach Shimla around 10.30 pm.
If you wish to set out on your own, you can wait to get a vehicle to Karcham, which is a junction 3 km ahead or you could simply walk it. Karcham is a junction where roads from Rekong Peo and Sangla meet. The big hydel project by the Jaypee group also starts at Karcham. From Karcham either take a vehicle to Sangla, 17 km away, or Reckong Peo for more connectivity to Shimla.
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Buffer Day
This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 2,500 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 7
This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 2,500 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
go to previous day Day 7
How Difficult is the Buran Ghati Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate-Difficult
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 40.5 km in seven trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,585 ft (9,415 ft to 15,000 ft). Every day will include ascents, descents. You’ll need to negotiate boulder sections near the pass. This is a trek that demands good preparation and stamina.
The Terrain:
You start the trek at an altitude of over 9000 ft. This is higher than usual. Your body takes time to get used to the altitude which can add to the challenge of the trek.
Beyond Dhunda, the trail climbs steeply to the pass. And you need to navigate this ascent at an altitude of over 13,000 ft above sea-level. This can be taxing.
Just after the pass-crossing, you need to navigate a boulder field. While this may be covered in snow in May, expect to face the boulders anytime from June onwards. You need good preparation and strong legs to tackle this.
While approaching the River campsite, the last camp is a small exposed section that overlooks a river, where you need to be careful while traversing.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Early in the season, expect a lot of snow ahead of Litham. This makes the situation more difficult than usual. We will give you microspikes but you need to be careful and tread with caution.
After the pass-crossing, you will have to negotiate steep snowy slopes. Sometimes you can slide, sometimes not. Wear microspikes before stepping on hard snow to prevent slips and injuries. Use existing footholds; avoid making new paths. Indiahikes' technical team will guide trekkers and create footholds. Ropes will be used if the snow is weak.
Heavy rainfall or snow can alter a lot of dynamics. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The trek involves an altitude gain of 5,585 ft (9,415 ft to 15,000 ft) over seven trekking days. You start high, at over 9000 ft above sea-level and on most days you gain almost 2000 ft in altitude.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high, too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
There are only two exit points on the trek — Janglik before the pass crossing and Barua after the pass crossing.
In case of emergency before the pass, this means retracing the path that you take back to Janglik and further to Tangnu.
Or if you’re closer to the pass or have already crossed, then a long walk to Barua skipping the river campsite of Munirang.
Dayara and Litham campsites are the best places to decide to turn around. From Dhunda it will be a long walk back to Janglik. Heading to Barua will be extremely challenging, given the pass crossing to be tackled and steep descent too.
Closest Hospital to the Buran Ghati Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is Rohru which lies approximately 50 km away. However, the treatment facilities are basic.
Here are details of a few hospitals in Rohru:
1. Civil Hospital Rohru
Rohru, Himachal Pradesh – 171207
2. Rai Hospital and Maternity Centre
Court Road, Rohru, Himachal Pradesh – 171207
For any advanced treatment, head to Shimla which is 100 km/4 hours away.
On the other hand, if you’ve crossed the pass, the closest hospitals are located in Rampur Bushahr.
Here is a list of hospitals where medical assistance can be sought:
1. Government Hospital
Rajpur, Rampur Bushahr, Himachal Pradesh – 172001
2. Dr BK Arora Hospital
Chuha Bagh, Shimla NH-22, Jori Road,
Rampur, Rampur Bushahr, Himachal Pradesh – 172022
Ph: +919816233900
Here too the facilities are basic. Shimla is the place to head for any advanced treatment. It’s a 125 km/5 hour drive from Rampur.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do Buran Ghati Trek
Time your Trek well
toggle accordion
When you take out all the best parts of our Himalayan treks and stitch them together to make one perfect trek, that’s the Buran Ghati trek. But to appreciate its beauty, you need to time it properly. This section will help you do that.
There are two great seasons to do the Buran Ghati trek — summer and autumn .
Buran Ghati in Summer (mid-May to end of June)
Day time temperature: Between 13 °C and 17 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero at higher campsite
Presence of snow: You will find snow at the Litham campsite in May. During June, you can expect snow at the last alpine campsite of Dhunda.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers in May and 3 warm layers towards June
Summer is a coveted season to do the Buran Ghati trek because the Buran Pass itself is a dramatic wall of ice in June. So, you get to rappel down an ice wall while crossing the famed pass. That is a major attraction. One that makes many adventure seekers choose the Buran Ghati trek in summer.
To give you a picture of how it looks in this season — imagine vast snowfields starting from Dhunda till the pass.
Then, you rappel down from the top of the pass for about a 150 m section. Even after crossing the pass, you trek in snow for around an hour. Multiple snow slides will have you squeaking with almost childish delight.
This snow starts melting in the latter part of June. So, while there will be snow close to the pass, it may not be enough to offer you big slides.
The colour of the trail also starts changing shades of white to greens and yellows as you move from May to June. Wildflowers start blooming on the meadows and around the campsites. The grasslands turn a bright shade of green interspersed with bright yellow flowers.
It is truly a colourful experience with the forests, grasslands, and flowers coming to life after months of winter.
Buran Ghati in Autumn (mid-September to mid-October)
Day time: Between 12 °C and 16 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero to -4 to -5 °C at higher campsite
Presence of snow: You can expect frost at the campsite of Dhunda. There are chances of snowfall at the Buran Ghati Pass when weather goes bad.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
The autumn season is a shorter one as compared to summer. The biggest miss in October is that there is no snow and no rappelling down the ice wall of Buran Ghati.
Despite this, autumn is one of the best times to do the Buran Ghati trek as you get to see the fiery, glorious colours during this time.
The trail changes colour as you trudge deeper into the trek. Initially, you’ll notice many shades of green near the base camp. This continues as you trek through forests and grasslands. But as you gain altitude and closer to the pass, you’ll notice more yellows, oranges, and browns.
You see snow but in smaller patches. The ice on the Buran Ghati wall has melted away, exposing rocky terrain. You trek down this rocky patch while descending. There’s no rappelling. This makes the trek a bit easier in the autumn.
But the grandeur and adventure of Buran Ghati remain the same in summer as well as autumn.
By October, there are chances of witnessing the first winter snow of the year.
Watch this video to know more about the best time to do the Buran Ghati trek:
How to Plan Your Travel for the Buran Ghati Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Janglik is the base camp of the Buran Ghati trek. It is situated in the south-eastern part of Himachal Pradesh and is one of the last villages accessible by road along the Pabbar Valley. It is just 40 km from Rohru but the journey takes easily more than 3 hours.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 09.30 am from Shaktan Homestay Rohru Rohru . Arrive in Rohru by Day Zero , which is one day before Day-1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day-1 of your trek is 25th May, book your tickets to reach Rohru by 24th May.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rohru:
Rohru does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rohru is to:
Fly to Delhi , take direct HRTC Bus from Delhi to Rohru
Fly to Delhi , take bus to Shimla , and take HRTC bus from Shimla to Rohru
Fly to Chandigarh take direct HRTC bus to Rohru via Shimla
Flight Options to Reach Rohru:
Pro Tip: To reach Rohru on Day Zero, that is one day before the Day-1 of your trek, book your flight tickets two days in advance. That is, if 25th September is the Day 1 of your trek, book your flight for 23rd September to either Chandigarh or Delhi
How to plan your return journey from Buran Ghati:
Your trek ends at Barua Village . From Barua , Indiahikes will arrange transport back to Shimla. After you reach Shimla, you can retrace your journey back to Delhi or Chandigarh. But please keep the following things in mind before planning your return travel:
You will reach Shimla very late (close to 11 PM) on the last day of your trek. So, we recommend that you add a buffer day and plan your travel back to Delhi for the next day. This also safeguards your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
Account for a 14-15 hr journey from Shimla to Delhi. Plan your flight tickets out of Delhi accordingly.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Janglik on your own:
Connectivity from Rohru to Janglik is quite limited, with almost no public transport options available . Shared vehicles operate on this route, but their timings are unpredictable, making it hard to plan ahead without the latest updates.
The best way to reach Janglik is to opt for the Indiahikes pickup for a smooth and hassle-free journey. But if you are traveling on your own, the only reliable option to reach Janglik from Rohru is to book a private cab.
However, if you find any information on reliable public transport running on this route, please let us know at [email protected] [email protected]
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Buran Ghati Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Buran Ghati Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Buran Ghati Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Buran Ghati Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Buran Ghati Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp of Janglik? expand accordion
There's an option to leave excess luggage behind in Rohru which comes during your journey from Shimla to the basecamp. After the trek, your cloakroom luggage will be handed over to you in Rampur.
It will cost Rs 200 per 10 kg bag. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.)
How do I book for my stay on the last day after the trek at Shimla? expand accordion
Booking stays at Shimla can be a bit tricky. There are two options we would suggest.
A. Book for two nights in advance at Shimla. This means a confirmation of your stay. Whether the buffer day is used or not, your stay is confirmed at Shimla.
B. Book for your stay on the last day of the trek. Take this call based on the buffer day being used. When the trek is about to end at Barua, you get network connectivity. You can either book directly or ask your friends or family members to book while you are travelling to Shimla.
What is buffer day on this trek? expand accordion
At Indiahikes, we understand the time, energy, and efforts that you put into preparing for a trek.
And it is awful to have to leave the trek incomplete and come back because of any weather-related issues. Especially a trek as beautiful as Buran Ghati.
Therefore, we account for a buffer day to take care of any delays caused by weather or terrain-related challenges that cause a delay in proceeding with the trek.
If buffer day is utilised, you need to pay Rs.2,500 + 5% GST (Rs.125) to your Trek Leader.
Will there be rappelling from the Buran Pass during my trek? expand accordion
If you are going during the summer months of May and June, then you will rappel down on an ice wall at Buran Pass, which is at 15,000 feet.
However, do not expect the same after the monsoon. The snow would have melted away and you don’t rappel down in September, and October. Instead, you descend the trails from the pass, on a series of switchbacks.
Is there mobile network on this trek? Are there any electricity charging points on this trek? expand accordion
The last place you’ll find a mobile phone signal is Janglik. There is Vodafone/Airtel network at Janglik.
However, after Janglik you won’t find a signal at any of the campsites. You might find a bit of network somewhere on the trail in the mountains, but do not depend on it.
Finish all your important calls at Shimla itself. Please inform anxious family members about limited phone connectivity. There will be no electricity charging points anywhere on the trek.
Janglik is the last point that is electrically connected. However, the electricity is extremely intermittent and can be absent for most of the day.
So, we strongly encourage you to bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Protip: Beware that the power from your batteries will drain faster in the cold temperatures of this region. So, put the batteries in a small pouch and keep them inside your sleeping bag to keep them warm during the night.
On the other side of the pass, Barua might have electricity. But we, at Indiahikes, leave for Shimla as soon as we reach Barua.
How many months in advance should I book the Buran Ghati trek? expand accordion
Buran Ghati is a popular trek. Getting last-minute slots for this trek is impossible. So if you are keen on trekking to Buran Ghati, plan and register for the trek at least 2 months in advance. This will also give you adequate time to prepare for the trek.
Is Buran Ghati a good first Himalayan trek? expand accordion
Yes, if you are really fit. Buran Ghati is a moderate-difficult trek. For this, you ideally need prior high-altitude trek experience. That will help you enjoy the trek better.
But you can attempt Buran Ghati as your first trek if you have a strict fitness routine. To ensure this, your Experience Coordinator will request a fitness screenshot after you register for the trek.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Buran Ghati trek? expand accordion
Rohru is the last town where you’ll find ATMs to make cash withdrawals. It lies about 40 km before Janglik. All major public and private sector banks have their ATMs at Rohru. Therefore, Rohru is your best option if you want to withdraw cash. Post that there are no ATMs.
If you’re travelling with Indiahikes, ensure that you have enough money to pay your driver and some money as an emergency fund.
What will the weather be like on Buran Ghati trek? expand accordion
Buran Ghati Trek can be done in two seasons — Summer and Autumn. The summer season starts in mid-May and continues until the end of June. It might even stretch to the first week of July. Then the trek closes for the monsoon season.
After that, it reopens in mid-September and goes on until the second or third week of October. The weather and temperatures in each season are different.
In summer, the daytime temperature would be around 15-20 degrees Celsius. At night, the temperature would drop to 0 degrees Celsius.
In autumn, the daytime temperatures hover around 15 degrees Celsius. But at night the temperature could drop to sub-zero levels, especially at the higher campsites.
How long is Buran Ghati trek? expand accordion
Buran Ghati is not a very long trek. A total distance of 37 km is covered in 5 trekking days. On average a day, you cover about 7 km.
On this trek, you climb from 9,415 ft to 15,000 ft in 5 days and descend on the 6th day. The toughest day of the trek is trekking from Dhunda to the River Campsite via Buran Ghati. On this day you trek for over 9-10 hours, covering 8.4 km. You touch the highest point of the trek on this day.
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Moderate-Difficult treks, you’ll walk for about 8-12 km each day. Gradual to steep ascents and descents are common on all days. Expect to reach high altitudes of 15,000+ ft. There will also be technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks), which our technical teams will help you navigate.
If you are above the age of 62 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advice you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, the total cost of offloading on this trek is Rs 4,800 for the entire trek. Check out ways to make carrying your backpack easier
Is Rentals available for the Buran Ghati trek? expand accordion
Yes, the rentals are available for the Buran Ghati trek. Head over to the Indiahikes rentals website to know more about what gears you can rent.
How do I plan my travel to Rohru? expand accordion
Book your air tickets to either Delhi or Chandigarh for Day Zero , which is the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. From there, you'll get buses to Rohru. For a detailed explanation of how to plan your travel, click here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.