Chandrakhani Pass Trek 2026 | Himachal’s Easiest Pass-Climb Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request a Call
Chandrakhani Pass Trek
Himachal's Easiest Pass Climb
We've announced 2026 dates for the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
Scroll down to view dates. If you need help planning the trek, please get in touch with us. Click Here to Request A Callback
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Manali: Start your trek from the Indiahikes Jungle Line campus — tucked inside dense deodar forests and apple orchards in the silent outskirts of Manali.
Mixed Forests Leading Up to Grasslands: Witness pine, deodar, and maple forests as you ascend out of Rumsu, and rhododendrons as you climb higher, finally opening up to the expansive grasslands
Link Between Two of Himachal’s Most Important Valleys: Tread on the only navigable pass connecting the Beas and Parvati River Valleys. Referred to as the Malana Pass in 1800s travelogues, shepherds have used it for centuries.
360-degree Mountain Views at the Pass: Witness a 360-degree panorama with three major Himalayan Ranges– Dhauladhar, Pir Panjal and the Greater Himalayas– clearly visible from the pass.
Himachal's Easiest Pass Climb
Trekking in Himachal is all about the big mountain passes. From Pin Bhaba, Rupin, Buran, Borasu to Kugti and Hampta, the list is endless. But most of them are arduous treks, demanding prior experience. Hampta is easier but comes with tricky sections and multiple river crossings.
This is where the Chandrakhani Pass Trek stands out. It is a classic high-altitude pass in Himachal. In fact, it is the only navigable pass linking the Beas and Parvati Valleys—a historic route traveled by shepherds and traders for ages. Chandrakhani even finds mention in travelogues dating back to the 1800s. It was, then, called the Malana Pass. Yet, it is the easiest of the lot we just talked about.
play video
In itself, Chandrakhani Pass is a fantastic trek to do. Immediately as you start your trek from Rumsu, you enter an incredible forest section. From towering pine trees to maples, oaks and eventually rhododendrons, the variety is striking. As you climb higher, the tree line gives way to vast grasslands of the upper Kullu Valley. You begin to see the snow-capped peaks of Pir Panjal and Dhauladhar ranges. Camping on clearings amidst these forests and on the meadows of Chaklani is an experience of a lifetime. And then, ahead of Chaklani, a thrilling 2 km ridge walk from Chaklani takes you to the pass. From the ridge, on your left, you see Dhauladhar range. On your right, lies the Pir Panjal range. You see Mt Hanuman Tibba, Friendship Peak, Shikar Beh and Indrasan Peak– the iconic summits of Himachal.
Read more
expand overview
In itself, Chandrakhani Pass is a fantastic trek to do. Immediately as you start your trek from Rumsu, you enter an incredible forest section. From towering pine trees to maples, oaks and eventually rhododendrons, the variety is striking. As you climb higher, the tree line gives way to vast grasslands of the upper Kullu Valley. You begin to see the snow-capped peaks of Pir Panjal and Dhauladhar ranges. Camping on clearings amidst these forests and on the meadows of Chaklani is an experience of a lifetime. And then, ahead of Chaklani, a thrilling 2 km ridge walk from Chaklani takes you to the pass. From the ridge, on your left, you see Dhauladhar range. On your right, lies the Pir Panjal range. You see Mt Hanuman Tibba, Friendship Peak, Shikar Beh and Indrasan Peak– the iconic summits of Himachal.
The 20 km trek to Chandrakhani Pass is spread across 4 days, allowing for a gradual gain in altitude. It climbs almost immediately out of Manali, which means that accessing it is much easier than any other pass trek in Himachal. There are no difficult bouldery sections to navigate either. This is rare for a high-altitude pass in the Himalayas. Most Himalayan passes climb very high and feature long, strenuous boulder sections.
This makes Chandrakhani Pass unique. It is not only an iconic Himachali Pass with deep historical and cultural significance, but also offers all the thrills of trekking to a high-altitude Himalayan pass without throwing any technical challenge in terms of either altitude or terrain. It is no surprise that Chandrakhani has become Himachal’s most loved pass climb for beginners.
5 Things We Love About the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
1) Easy Access from Manali
The Chandrakhani Pass trek is unique in how easily it’s accessible from Manali. It begins at Rumsu, just an hour’s drive away—no long journeys or complicated logistics. That’s a big contrast to most pass treks in Himachal, where you usually spend an entire day just reaching the base. This smooth start is one of the many things that makes Chandrakhani feel so approachable, especially for those new to high-altitude trekking.
2) The Magical Forest Trail
The trek begins through a dense, enchanting forest. From the moment you step out of Rumsu village, you’re surrounded by tall pines, deodar, and maple trees. The cool shade, the sound of birds, and the scent of fresh wood create an atmosphere of pure bliss. As you climb higher, the forest changes. Vibrant rhododendron trees take over. On the stretch from Naya Tapru to Chaklani, they add bursts of colour to your journey. The descent through lush woods on the other side of the pass is a soothing end to the trek.
3) Spectacular Mountain Views
The trek is famous for its stunning views of snow-covered peaks. Right from Naya Tapru, you start seeing the majestic peaks like Mt Hanuman Tibba, Friendship Peak, and Indrasan Peak. On summit day, as you walk along the narrow ridge leading to Chandrakhani Pass, the views become even more incredible. To one side, the Dhauladhar range rises in all its glory, while the Pir Panjal and Parvati ranges stretch out on the other. Standing at the pass, surrounded by mountains on all sides, feels magical.
4) Wide Clearings and Meadows
The Chandrakhani Pass Trek is a treat for those who love open spaces. It is dotted with vast clearings that are perfect for camping and soaking in the natural beauty. The biggest clearing, Naya Tapru, stretches over 1.5 km and offers panoramic views of snow peaks and villages below. During the monsoon months of July and August, the trek turns into a colourful paradise, with wildflowers carpeting the meadows and hillsides. The sheer variety and abundance of flowers make this trek feel like Himachal’s Valley of Flowers. Even if cloudy weather blocks the mountain views, the vibrant flowers keep trekkers mesmerised. To experience this floral wonder, plan your trek during the rainy season — the light afternoon showers only add to the charm.
5) The Thrill of the Ridge Walk
The final 2-km ridge walk to Chandrakhani Pass is an exciting and unique experience. Walking on the narrow trail, with stunning views on either side, fills you with a sense of adventure. The wind adds to the thrill as you make your way to the pass, where you’re rewarded with a 180° panorama of mountains and valleys.
Whether you’re camping in the meadows, walking through colourful forests, or marveling at the views from the summit, every moment on the Chandrakhani Pass feels special. For beginners and experienced trekkers alike, this trek offers an unforgettable taste of Himachal’s charm.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Chandrakhani Pass : Take on the journey to Chandrakhani, a iconic Himachali Pass crossing trek, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Manali Jungle Line Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Manali on Day 1 to Lunch at Manali on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way from Manali (Beas Bridge) to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus (₹1000 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.1600 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Chandrakhani Pass - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Chandrakhani Pass trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Now
Day 1
Reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at Manali
Reporting Time: 3 pm | Location: Beas Bridge, Manali
Pick-up will be arranged from Beas Bridge, Manali to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at 3 pm.
Note: The cost is ₹500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way from Manali (Beas Bridge) to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus (₹1000 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Drive from Indiahikes Campus to Rumsu. Trek from Rumsu to Ghan Kuradi
Drive Distance: 9 km | Drive Duration: 25 minutes | Trek Distance: 3 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Gain: 6,745 ft to 8,930 ft
You will be taking a shared cab from Indiahikes campus to Rumsu. The fare of this ride is included in the trek fee.
Day 3
Trek from Ghan Kuradi to Chaklani via Naya Tapru
Trek Distance: 4 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude Gain: 8,930 ft to 11,368 ft
Day 4
Trek from Chaklani to Chandrakhani Pass Top and back to Naya Tapru
Trek Distance: 9.5 km | Trek Duration: 10 hours | Altitude Gain/Loss : 11,368 ft to 10,430 ft via 12,185 ft
Day 5
Trek from Naya Tapru to Rumsu. Drive back to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at Manali.
Drive Distance: 9 km | Drive Duration: 25 minutes | Trek Distance: 4.8 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude Loss: 10,430 ft to 6,745 ft
Note: The cost is ₹500 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one way to Manali (Beas Bridge) from Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus (₹1000 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Previous
Next
Day 1: Reach Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus at Manali
The process of your registration, health screening, and document verification will take place with your rental gear collection.
You will be staying at our Manali Campus for the night. The next day, the team will leave at 7 am in the morning and drive to Rumsu. The drive will take around an hour.
The process of your registration, health screening, and document verification will take place with your rental gear collection.
You will be staying at our Manali Campus for the night. The next day, the team will leave at 7 am in the morning and drive to Rumsu. The drive will take around an hour.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Rumsu to Ghan Kuradi
Drive Duration: 25 minutes | Trek Duration: 3 hours Drive Distance: 9 km | Trek Distance: 3 km
Altitude Gain: 6,745 ft to 8,930 ft
The trek starts from Rumsu village. You start your day early from Indiahikes Manali Campus to reach this village situated 9 km away. This drive will take around half an hour. The architecture of the houses here remind you of the Kathkuni architecture that you come across in Jiskun on the Rupin Pass trek . Rumsu is well connected with Nagar and Malana. People at Rumsu worship the same deity as Malana. The culture and practices are also very similar.
Cross the Rumsu village to enter the forest trail. It's a mixed forest with Deodar, pine and walnut trees. The forest here is dense and the trail ascends gradually through it. After about an hour and a half of climb, you reach a small clearing called Stiling. This is your first resting point. There is a small stream flowing nearby. Refill your water bottles here.
A gradual ascent in the forest trail for about 20 minutes takes you to another clearing called Ghan Kuradi. This beautiful clearing surrounded by pine, deodar, Rai, maple, chestnut, green and yellow oaks offers stunning views of the Kullu valley. This is where you will be making your campsite for the day. Since a water source is close by, this is the perfect camping spot for DIY trekkers too.
Read More
The trek starts from Rumsu village. You start your day early from Indiahikes Manali Campus to reach this village situated 9 km away. This drive will take around half an hour. The architecture of the houses here remind you of the Kathkuni architecture that you come across in Jiskun on the Rupin Pass trek . Rumsu is well connected with Nagar and Malana. People at Rumsu worship the same deity as Malana. The culture and practices are also very similar.
Cross the Rumsu village to enter the forest trail. It's a mixed forest with Deodar, pine and walnut trees. The forest here is dense and the trail ascends gradually through it. After about an hour and a half of climb, you reach a small clearing called Stiling. This is your first resting point. There is a small stream flowing nearby. Refill your water bottles here.
A gradual ascent in the forest trail for about 20 minutes takes you to another clearing called Ghan Kuradi. This beautiful clearing surrounded by pine, deodar, Rai, maple, chestnut, green and yellow oaks offers stunning views of the Kullu valley. This is where you will be making your campsite for the day. Since a water source is close by, this is the perfect camping spot for DIY trekkers too.
On a clear day, you can see mountains like Hanuman Tibba, Shikar Beh and Mukar Beh.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Ghan Kuradi to Chaklani via Naya Tapru
Trek Distance: 4 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours
Altitude Gain: 8,930 ft to 11,368 ft
This will tell you just how fit you must be
From Ghan Kuradi, a series of three short climbs lead you to Naya Tapru. This is used to be an older campsite of Indiahikes. But due to acute water shortage, we had to change it.
As you gradually ascend in the mixed forest trail, the views of the valley start unfolding behind you. It takes about an hour to reach Naya Tapru. This is a huge clearing and offers far reaching views of the villages around Manali. You get grand views of snow clad peaks too.
The trail goes in the South-East direction from Naya Tapru.
Read More
From Ghan Kuradi, a series of three short climbs lead you to Naya Tapru. This is used to be an older campsite of Indiahikes. But due to acute water shortage, we had to change it.
As you gradually ascend in the mixed forest trail, the views of the valley start unfolding behind you. It takes about an hour to reach Naya Tapru. This is a huge clearing and offers far reaching views of the villages around Manali. You get grand views of snow clad peaks too.
The trail goes in the South-East direction from Naya Tapru.
From Naya Tapru to Chaklani, ascend in the zig zag trail. The trail is not very steep. As the treeline gets sparse, you start getting a wider view of the surroundings. This trail is dominated by rhododendron trees.
You see a mountain ridge in the South-East direction behind which is the Chandrakhani Pass. In about 2.5 hours from Naya Tapru, you reach the second campsite, Chaklani.
Chaklani is a small clearing located at an altitude of 11,368 ft. Next to the campsite, there is a small water stream. Explore around a bit. Rest well as tomorrow will be a long day.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Chaklani to Chandrakhani Pass Top and back to Naya Tapru
Trek Distance: 9.5 km | Trek Duration: 10 hours
Altitude Gain/Loss : 11,368 ft to 10,430 ft via 12,185 ft
Today is the most adventurous day of the entire trek. It's a trek to the highest point of the Pass!
Note: Replenish your water supplies before starting your trek. There are no water sources until you come back to the campsite.
From Chaklani, the trail goes diagonally in the South-East direction. You gradually gain altitude as you ascend to the highest point of the trek, the Chandrakhani Pass. It’s about an hour and a half of an ascent from Chaklani. Once you reach the Chandrakhani pass, it’s almost a kilometre walk till the highest point at the pass. This ridge walk is what makes this trek different compared to the other pass treks in the Himalayas.
Read More
Today is the most adventurous day of the entire trek. It's a trek to the highest point of the Pass!
Note: Replenish your water supplies before starting your trek. There are no water sources until you come back to the campsite.
From Chaklani, the trail goes diagonally in the South-East direction. You gradually gain altitude as you ascend to the highest point of the trek, the Chandrakhani Pass. It’s about an hour and a half of an ascent from Chaklani. Once you reach the Chandrakhani pass, it’s almost a kilometre walk till the highest point at the pass. This ridge walk is what makes this trek different compared to the other pass treks in the Himalayas.
From the ridge, on your left, you see Dhauladhar range. On your right, lies the Pir Panjal range that further stretches into the Parvathi range. You see Mt Hanuman Tibba, Friendship Peak, Shikar Beh, Indrasan Peak and many more. Along with these snow capped ranges, panoramic views of the numerous forested rolling hills of Kullu valley elevates the beauty of this whole place. You also get the far reaching views of the villages of Kullu and Manali.
After spending some time at the highest point, you start making your way back to Naya Tapru.
From here, it’s a long descent for about 6 km to reach Naya Tapru Campsite. You pass through Chaklani where you can fill in your water bottles. You get the chance to revisit the perfect grasslands and spend some more time through the rhododendron forests. Rest well at Naya Tapru for the night.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Naya Tapru to Rumsu
Trek Distance: 4.8 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Altitude Loss: 10,430 ft to 6,745 ft
Take the same route that you took on day 2. After filling up your water bottles, start by descending the three steep sections near the Naya Tapru campsite. Soon you will come across the forest section of Ghan Kuradi. After which you will reach Stiling clearing to take a rest. Traverse through the dense forest sections of deodar, pine and walnut trees to finally reach Rumsu.
Drive back to our campus, have lunch, return your rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage.
Drive back to Manali on the same day.
Read More
Take the same route that you took on day 2. After filling up your water bottles, start by descending the three steep sections near the Naya Tapru campsite. Soon you will come across the forest section of Ghan Kuradi. After which you will reach Stiling clearing to take a rest. Traverse through the dense forest sections of deodar, pine and walnut trees to finally reach Rumsu.
Drive back to our campus, have lunch, return your rentals and collect your cloakroom luggage.
Drive back to Manali on the same day.
go to previous day Day 4
How Difficult is the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy-Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 26 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,440 ft (6,745 ft to 12,185 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents on uneven trails.
Terrain:
On the first day of the trek you gain almost 3000 ft in elevation and go from 6700 ft to over 10,000 ft above sea-level. Although the ascent is gradual and not too steep, hydrate well to avoid getting hit by AMS.
The climb from Chaklani to Chandrakhani pass is gradual. But chances of snow in early June can make it tricky.
There is a long ledge walk leading to the pass, which needs to be navigated carefully.
The forest trail from Rumsu climbs relentlessly until you reach the meadows. You gain more than 3500 ft over this 9 km stretch. This can test your endurance.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic.
Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. The forest trail ahead of Rumsu gets especially mushy and difficult to climb.
Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow. It can also make the ledge leading to Chandrakhani Pass inaccessible.
In the Autumn season, the temperatures plummet below zero. Even without snowfall, strong winds can take a toll on you if you're not well-layered.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
You climb more than 3500 ft from Rumsu to Naya Tapru on the very first day of the trek. This rapid elevation gain, coupled with exertion, makes you very susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness.
The Chandrakhani Pass trek is situated 12,250 ft above sea level. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
Chandrakhani Pass has limited exit points. You need to head down Rumsu before moving on to Manali.
Closest Hospital to the Chandrakhani Pass Trek:
The medical facilities at Manali, just 27 km from Rumsu, are your best bet in case of sudden medical emergencies on the Chandrakhani Pass Trek. In case of a more serious medical issue, the best option is to access medical facilities at Chandigarh, a 6-hr drive from Manali.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The Chandrakhani Pass Trek can be done for almost five months in the year. The very best time to do this trek is between May and September. You may extend it till October.
During other months of the year, the snow is too high for a comfortable pass-crossing.
Chandrakhani Pass in June
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: Despite it being summers, expect snow patches on the ground. Especially close to Chaklani and above it is still snow bound.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
In June expect a lot of snow from Chaklani onward. You will find good snow slightly after Chaklani camp right until the pass. You’ll get snow even until you get down on the other side of the pass. The depth of snow on both sides is quite high.
Chandrakhani Pass in July and August
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C.
Presence of snow: Snow starts to melt as we enter July. By August most of the snow is gone, except for some patches near Chandrakhani Pass.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers
In July the snow starts to melt rapidly but stays in good patches on the higher reaches of the pass. But different magic starts to unfold from mid-July onward.
The valley starts to get its first monsoon showers. Wildflowers begin to sprout in the entire green belt on the Kullu side. Sometimes trekkers have to wade through a bed of wildflowers on either side of the trail.
If there is a favourite time to do the trek, then mid-July to the end of August is the best time to do the Chandrakhani Pass trek . The grasslands are a vibrant green. The slopes are alive with swaying wildflowers. On the other hand, the skies are generally cloudy though. Be game for good showers on the trek. The rains last until the mid of September.
Chandrakhani Pass in September
Day time: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and 3 °C.
Presence of snow: You will not find snow in the month of September on the trail.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Post-mid-September, the skies start to clear up and the early autumn colours strike the slopes. The Chandrakhani Pass is at its most colourful . The sunrises and sunsets are gorgeous, the snow-clad mountains stand tall against the deep blue skies. The trek is at its most perfect.
At Indiahikes we wind up the Chandrakhani Pass season at the end of September.
By the end of the first week of October, the air is nippier. The early winter chill is felt. Night temperatures will fall below zero in most camps. At the higher camps, it could be icy cold. The streams dry up and water sources become increasingly difficult. The earth is browner. The boulders were starker.
Is trekking in monsoon safe?
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali , is the base camp of the Chandrakhani Pass trek. It is situated in Sarsai , a quaint hamlet, about 15 km from the main bustling center of Manali.
You must reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus, Manali , by 4 PM on Day-1 of your trek.
You can choose to arrive at the campus by yourself.
Alternatively, Indiahikes arranges for transport to the Jungle Line Campus from Manali . Indahikes vehicles will pick you up from Beas Bridge in Manali at 3 PM on Day 1 of your trek.
In either case, we recommend that you reach Manali by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Manali by 24th August. This gives you a buffer to account for unexpected delays and also allows you to rest well before starting your trek.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Manali:
Manali is easily accessible by road from Delhi and Chandigarh . However, the stretch beyond Mandi on NH-3 is prone to frequent landslides, often leading to delays. Keep this in mind while planning your journey.
The easiest way to reach the Manali is to:
Fly to Delhi , take a direct bus from ISBT Kashmere Gate to Manali
Fly to Chandigarh , take a direct bus from Chandigarh to Manali .
Flight options to reach Manali:
Pro Tip: If the flights to Chandigarh are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Manali. Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Chandigarh. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Chandigarh is less than Rs 1000, then book for Chandigarh. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus in Sarsai
From Manali-
Sarsai is 15 km from the main center of Manali on the Kullu-Naggar-Manali Road. From the Sarsai Bus Stand , it is just a 10-15 minute walk to the Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus .
By Auto or Private Cab: Fare ranges between Rs.500 to Rs.1000
By Public Bus: Buses leave for Naggar from Manali Bus Stand every 30 minutes. They pass via Sarsai.
Public Bus Timings: First bus from Manali at 7:00 AM.
Please Note : Buses from Delhi or Chandigarh drop you at the Manali Private/Volvo Bus Stand. The local bus to Sarsai leaves from the Manali Local Bus Stand, 1.5 km away. You can walk or take an auto to reach the local bus stand.
From Delhi/Chandigarh-
Option 1: Get down at Kullu and take the Local Kullu-Manali Bus to Sarsai
Take any bus to Manali from Delhi / Chandigarh
Get down at Kullu Bus Stand instead of going all the way to Manali
Local Buses run regularly from Kullu to Manali via Sarsai. Take this bus and get down at Sarsai
From the Sarsai Bus Stand , it is just a 10-15 minute walk to the Indiahikes Campus
Option 2: Get down at 15-Mile and take a Cab to Sarsai
Take any bus to Manali from Delhi / Chandigarh
Get down at the 15 Mile Bus Stop instead of going all the way to Manali
Hire a cab for the 12 km journey to Indiahikes Jungle Line Campus
Secret Travel Tip: From the 15-Mile Bus Stand, a wooden bridge over the Beas River leads into the Batahar Bihal Forest. The Indiahikes Campus is just a 3-km scenic walk through these deodar forests and apple orchards. If you are traveling in September or October, you’ll see apple trees laden with fruit.
Before you take this hike, stop by The Cafe House for carrot cakes and trout fish grills.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Chandrakhani Pass Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What to Pack for Your Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Chandrakhani Pass Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Chandrakhani Pass Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 40 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
1. Do I get any mobile network on the trek? expand accordion
Yes. On the Chandrakhani Pass trek, the major network providers such as jio and airtel work almost throughout the trek.
Is trekking in monsoon safe? expand accordion
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
2. Where will I find ATMs on the trek? expand accordion
The nearest town to Rumsu, is Nagar which is 4 km away. This is the nearest place where you can find ATMs. But, if you need cash, we recommend withdrawing from Manali.
3. Will there be electricity at the campsites on the trek? expand accordion
There is no electricity throughout the trek. The only place you’ll find a plug to charge your phone or camera batteries will be Manali before and after the trek.
Therefore use your electronic equipment wisely. Fully charge your batteries before leaving your hotel and use your electronic equipment minimally.
Another thing to note is that cold temperatures drain the batteries faster. Having extra batteries or a power bank helps.
4. Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Chandrakhani Pass trek is Rs 1,600.
Find details about the offloading process here.
5. Is Manali Safe? expand accordion
Yes, Manali is a safe hill station to be in because it is a popular tourist destination, buzzing with people from various nationalities almost throughout the year. You will find a range of hotels (for all budgets), cafes, and eateries popping up at every turn.
6. I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 40 minutes.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.