Dayara Bugyal Trek 2026 | Beginner-Friendly Himalayan Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Dayara Bugyal Trek
An ideal Himalayan trek for beginners and families
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have expert Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Raithal: One of our largest Community Campuses, Raithal, welcomes you to a grand skyline, with Mt Srikanth, the Gangotri massif and Draupadi ka Danda on the horizon.
The Landscaping of Dayara Meadows: Undulating meadows in every direction, not a rock or tree out of place. Sheep grazing in the distance. The calmness of the Himalayas takes over as you walk through.
Sweeping Views of Yamunotri and Gangotri Ranges : Without much effort, you see Mt Srikanth, Jaonli, Draupadi ka Danda, the famous peaks of the Gangotri Range on one side, Bandarpoonch on the other.
Forests of Oak, Pine and Rhododendrons: The forests to Dayara Bugyal are incredibly romantic; crunching leaves beneath your feet, sunlight filtering in gently, and easy ascents and descents. It’s postcard-perfect.
An ideal Himalayan trek for beginners and families
We first explored the Dayara Bugyal trek in 2010. Back then, trekking just to a meadow wasn't a popular concept. Treks were focused on high mountain passes and glacial lakes. Routes stretched across Bugyals but meadows weren't destinations in themselves. After our recce at Dayara Bugyal, we knew that this mindset needed to change.
The Dayara Bugyal Trek takes you trek through beautiful forests of pine, maple, oaks and rhododendrons. And then, the landscape suddenly opens up to a vast, high-altitude meadow. The rolling grasslands of Dayara are so perfectly shaped, they almost feel unreal. Not a rock or tree seems out of place. Set against the majestic backdrop of the Greater Himalayas—Bandarpoonch, Kala Nag, Srikanth, Jaonli, and Draupadi Ka Danda—the trek covers every classic element of a Himalayan adventure.
Did you know we run Summer Camps on the Dayara Bugyal trek? If you have children aged 10-14, this is an ideal programme to help them gain confidence and resilience. Read more here.
play video
What makes it even more special is that Dayara Bugyal is stunning all year round. Spring brings rhododendrons in full bloom, summer meadows burst with wildflowers, autumn paints the hills in vibrant orange, and winter blankets everything in snow. The best part? You can reach the meadow in just 3 days of easy-moderate trekking. Dayara Bugyal has everything you’d want in a Himalayan trek—vast meadows, dense forests, and breathtaking mountain views—without being too challenging. It’s perfect for beginners and families looking for a memorable adventure.
Read more
expand overview
What makes it even more special is that Dayara Bugyal is stunning all year round. Spring brings rhododendrons in full bloom, summer meadows burst with wildflowers, autumn paints the hills in vibrant orange, and winter blankets everything in snow. The best part? You can reach the meadow in just 3 days of easy-moderate trekking. Dayara Bugyal has everything you’d want in a Himalayan trek—vast meadows, dense forests, and breathtaking mountain views—without being too challenging. It’s perfect for beginners and families looking for a memorable adventure.
At first, getting trekkers to embrace a meadow trek wasn’t easy. Many believed easy treks couldn’t be beautiful. It took time to change that mindset. But today, Dayara Bugyal is not only loved by beginners but also by seasoned trekkers.
So, it’s no surprise that Dayara Bugyal is consistently among the most popular treks we run at Indiahikes.
5 Things We Love About the Dayara Bugyal Trek
1) Our Raithal Campus
Staying at the Indiahikes Community Campus in Raithal is a standout experience for many trekkers. With Urjino Café, Crosstrek Stores, and relaxed breakout zones, it’s a refreshing change from the usual lodge stay. What truly sets it apart is the location — Mt. Srikanth rises right in front of you, while the forested hills behind lead to Dayara Bugyal. It’s as enriching as it is relaxing to spend the night here before your trek begins. If you’re a birding enthusiast, take a short 30-minute walk around the campus — you can spot upto 10–15 Himalayan bird species within that time.
2) The Big Mountains Looming Over the Meadows
The meadows of Dayara Bugyal are spectacular, but the towering mountains truly captivate trekkers. Imagine standing in the middle of these vast grasslands, with undulating hills stretching endlessly around you. Above it all rises Bandarpoonch, its snow-covered slopes glowing in the sunlight. The massif is omnipresent, like a guardian of the landscape. From Dayara, you can see the Greater Himalayan range in all its beauty. The majestic summits of the Gangotri range, including Bandarpoonch, Kala Nag, Srikanth, Jaonli, and Draupadi Ka Danda, are so close that you can almost touch them.
3) The Vastness of the Meadows
Dayara meadows are a sight to behold. They stretch endlessly, rolling over hillocks in a seamless carpet of green. Trekkers are often compelled to explore further, climbing one hillock after another, only to discover even more meadows ahead. The sheer scale and beauty of the meadows are otherworldly, leaving trekkers with a sense of wonder and disbelief that such a place exists.
4) The Shaded Forest Trails and Rich Biodiversity
Beyond a clearing called Ubaru ki Darali, above Raithal, tall oaks ( kharsu ) announce the onset of forests. Maples, rhododendrons ( burnash) , bamboo, and wild Himalayan Cherry ( tileen ), gradually join the mix. Giant roots hold the forest floor in a monstrous grip—mighty peaks of the Gangotri Range peep through gaps in foliage. Birdsong fills the day. Alarm calls of Sambhar deer shoot across the silence of the night. These shaded trails, alive with bird calls and dappled sunlight, create a magical ambiance. The forests are a haven for birdwatchers, home to species like the vibrant Himalayan Monal. You encounter the first pines at a rain shelter near Chilapada, and then the forest gradually thins into Dayara’s treeless grassland– witnessing this transition is an experience beyond description.
5) Campsites Tucked in Forest Clearings
The campsites on the Dayara Bugyal trek are some of the most picturesque in the Himalayas. Gui, Chilapada, and Nayata are all set in grassy clearings surrounded by dense forests, offering stunning views of the mountain tops. At these campsites you have the freedom to explore nearby woods, or simply sit back and admire the surroundings. Their seclusion and charm make them a favourite among trekkers.
Dayara Bugyal takes you through some of nature’s finest landscapes. While it is perfect for beginners and families, it is equally rewarding for seasoned trekkers. No matter the season, you simply can’t go wrong with the Dayara Bugyal trek.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Dayara Bugyal : Take on the adventure of trekking to Dayara Bugyal, An ideal Himalayan trek for beginners and families, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Raithal Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Raithal on Day 1 to dinner at Raithal on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1300 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹2600 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Dayara Bugyal - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Dayara Bugyal trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A route map of the Dayara Bugyal Trek
Day 1
Drive From Dehradun to Raithal
Drive Distance: 185 km | Drive Duration: 9 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Pick up Time: 6.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Raithal
Transport will be arranged at 6.30 AM. The cost is Rs. 1300/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Raithal to Gui
Trek Distance: 4.5 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude Gain: 7,142 ft to 9,630 ft
Day 3
Trek from Gui to Chilapada
Trek Distance: 2.5 km | Trek Duration: 2-3 hours | Altitude Gain: 9,630 ft to 10,515 ft
Day 4
Trek from Chilpada to Nayata via Dayara Top
Trek Distance: 9.5 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude Gain and Loss: 10,515 ft to 9,186 ft via 11,830 ft
Day 5
Trek from Nayata to Raithal
Trek Distance: 4 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude Loss: 9,186 ft to 7,142 ft
Day 6
Drive back from Raithal to Dehradun
Drive distance: 185 km | Drive Duration: 9 hours | Drop off point for Indiahikes trekkers: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun | Drop off Time: 6 pm
Transport will be arranged for your return journey. The cost is Rs. 1300/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Dehradun to Raithal
Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 185 km
Altitude: 7,142 ft
Drive Distance: 185 km
Highlights: Watch out for Tingling Point, from where you get to see the astounding views of almost all of Uttarakhand's highest peaks, including Mt Nanda Devi.
Raithal , the base camp for the Dayara Bugyal trek, is around 9 hours away from Dehradun.
The drive takes you through lovely forest stretches as soon as you exit Dehradun. Within an hour, you pass through Mussoorie, one of the most popular hill stations of Uttarakhand.
Between Mussoorie and Uttarkashi, you come across a viewpoint, often called the Tingling Point, from where you get astounding views of almost all of the Garhwal Himalayas. Right from the mountains near Himachal (Swargarohini and adjoining peaks) to Mt Bandarpoonch to Mt Srikanth, the Gangotri Peaks, the Chaukhamba massif, all the way to Mt Nanda Devi, you get striking views. This is of course possible only on a very clear day.
Read More
Raithal , the base camp for the Dayara Bugyal trek, is around 9 hours away from Dehradun.
The drive takes you through lovely forest stretches as soon as you exit Dehradun. Within an hour, you pass through Mussoorie, one of the most popular hill stations of Uttarakhand.
Between Mussoorie and Uttarkashi, you come across a viewpoint, often called the Tingling Point, from where you get astounding views of almost all of the Garhwal Himalayas. Right from the mountains near Himachal (Swargarohini and adjoining peaks) to Mt Bandarpoonch to Mt Srikanth, the Gangotri Peaks, the Chaukhamba massif, all the way to Mt Nanda Devi, you get striking views. This is of course possible only on a very clear day.
The largest town on the route is Uttarkashi, from where you head to Bhatwari.
As you approach Raithal, you witness the brilliant colours of sunset over Mt Bandarpoonch, Mt Srikanth, Mt Jaunli and Draupadi ka Danda peaks.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Raithal to Gui
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 4.5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 2,488 ft (7,142 ft to 9,630 ft)
Difficulty: Easy-moderate. Gradually ascending trail throughout.
Highlights: Lovely oak forests with leafy forest floors. Sunset by the lake at Gui.
At Raithal, you can see Mt. Srikanth and Gangotri 1, 2, and 3 in the distance along with the mountains mentioned above. These become more prominent as you gain altitude on the trail to Gui.
The forest where the Gui campsite is located is visible from Raithal.
The trail from Raithal to Gui is a gradually ascending one. The initial trail goes out of the Raithal village quickly and takes you through the village fields. Go along the well laid out trail and in an hour you come to a flat grassy clearing which also has a hand pump. Take a small water break here and then proceed.
Read More
At Raithal, you can see Mt. Srikanth and Gangotri 1, 2, and 3 in the distance along with the mountains mentioned above. These become more prominent as you gain altitude on the trail to Gui.
The forest where the Gui campsite is located is visible from Raithal.
The trail from Raithal to Gui is a gradually ascending one. The initial trail goes out of the Raithal village quickly and takes you through the village fields. Go along the well laid out trail and in an hour you come to a flat grassy clearing which also has a hand pump. Take a small water break here and then proceed.
Post the water point, the trail becomes more wooded. You make your way into a forest that consists mainly of green and brown oaks ( moru and kharsu ) and rhododendron. This makes it a very rich forest. Unlike other places, you do not find pines here.
The forest opens up to a couple of small clearings before you reach Gui.
The campsite at Gui is located in a small clearing surrounded by forests. There is a small table close by. You will find village huts around - these are used by villagers in the summer. There is also a u-shaped forest department hut at some distance.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Gui to Chilapada
Trek Duration: 3 hours | Trek Distance: 2.5 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 885 ft (9,630 ft to 10,515 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. Meandering flat trail through the forest
Highlights: Beautiful oak forests with mountains peeking through the trees. First views of Mt Bandarpoonch
The day's trek sees you carrying on along the trail the climbs out of Gui towards Dayara. As you climb up from Gui, you start seeing mountains on the other side, which were earlier hidden from view.
Today is a short day (3 km) with gradual ascends punctuated with flat sections.
Once you start from Gui, join the main trail and start climbing to Gui Thatch. This is a small meadow in the forest. On one side we have 5-6 Chania (shepherd) huts. Right in front of these huts is a compact pond. Just by the pond is a mound.
Read More
The day's trek sees you carrying on along the trail the climbs out of Gui towards Dayara. As you climb up from Gui, you start seeing mountains on the other side, which were earlier hidden from view.
Today is a short day (3 km) with gradual ascends punctuated with flat sections.
Once you start from Gui, join the main trail and start climbing to Gui Thatch. This is a small meadow in the forest. On one side we have 5-6 Chania (shepherd) huts. Right in front of these huts is a compact pond. Just by the pond is a mound.
You also see the igloo-shaped structures of the Forest Department near the Chania huts. Beside the shepherd’s hut, you see Forest Department huts in the shape of igloos.
Insta point : Gui Thatch has incredible views of the entire Gangotri range. These include Shrikanth, Gangotri I, II and III. Look straight, you see the Jaonli peak there. On your left, you can spot the top of Bandarpoonch.
The next half kilometre from Gui Thatch is a relaxed and easy walk. It goes through beautiful rhododendron. The terrain allows you to leisurely walk and soaks in the setting of a Himalayan forest.
Hug a tree : Spend some time connecting with nature. If you are trekking with Indiahikes, your Trek Leader may facilitate the hug-a-tree experience here that helps you connect much more deeply with the forest.
You gradually start ascending once the relaxed forest walk ends. You cross a couple of streams which may be flowing, dried or frozen depending on the season.
Barely five minutes after crossing these streams, you see an umbrella-shaped rain shelter. This is the rest point. Chilapada is not far from here. Catch your breath, stretch your legs and pause for 10-15 minutes before proceeding further.
Chilapada is 20 minutes from the rain shelter. Five minutes into the trek from the rain shelter, notice a broken trail on your left. Leave the main trail and start trekking on this broken trail. This goes to Chilapada, a small opening between the meadows.
Look around, on one side you have the Chilapada Top with some Chania huts.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Chilapada to Nayata via Dayara Top
Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Trek Distance: 9.5 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 1,435 ft; ⇘ 2,764 ft (10,515 ft to 9,186 ft via 11,830 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. Undulating walk across meadows followed by a final ascent.
Highlights: The grand meadows of Dayara Bugyal, set against the backdrop of the Gangotri range of peaks and Mt Bandarpoonch.
Chilapada is pretty close to the start of Dayara Bugyal giving you almost the whole day to explore the massive meadows.
Climb through the forests and in half an hour the tree line ends and you find yourself at the edge of meadows. You do not see the full magnitude of the meadows yet.
Here you can spot the Chania huts in front. The trail goes right on the edge of the meadow. Look up to your right to see the magnificent view of Bandar Poonch and Kala Nag. All the summits which were with you from Raithal and Gui are now a lot bigger adorning the panorama behind.
Read More
Chilapada is pretty close to the start of Dayara Bugyal giving you almost the whole day to explore the massive meadows.
Climb through the forests and in half an hour the tree line ends and you find yourself at the edge of meadows. You do not see the full magnitude of the meadows yet.
Here you can spot the Chania huts in front. The trail goes right on the edge of the meadow. Look up to your right to see the magnificent view of Bandar Poonch and Kala Nag. All the summits which were with you from Raithal and Gui are now a lot bigger adorning the panorama behind.
Photo point: The early morning view of Dayara Bugyal is worth every effort put in to get there. Miles of undulating meadows stretch in every direction, with the rays of the sun catching them in many moods.
If early in the season (May-June), thousands of yellow, violet and white flowers sprout across the meadows – sometimes, there are so many that you have to deliberately skirt around them.
In winter, you see miles and miles of powdery snow on the undulating terrain.
Spend at least a couple of hours exploring the Dayara meadows before retracing your steps to the Chania huts. The trail to Nayata goes below the huts and immediately enters the forest. The wooded trail is well laid out again. About 45 minutes of descent brings you to Nayata.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Nayata to Raithal
Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Trek Duration: 4 km
Altitude loss: ⇘ 2,044 ft (9,186 ft to 7,142 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. Short stretches of ascents and descents for 1.5 hours followed by a steeply descending trail
Highlights: Pleasurable descent through a lovely canopy of trees. Last views of Mt Bandarpoonch
It takes about 4 hours to reach Raithal, so start your days trek by 9 am. From the Nayata campsite, continue on the main trail you came down from Dayara yesterday. The trail continues to descend under a heavy canopy of forest cover.
Fifteen minutes of descent brings you to the rain shelter from where you diverted to Barnala on the way up. Continue moving down on the main trail.
Continue further for an hour before coming to the grassy clearing with the water source. Take a break here before completing the final hours descent to Raithal. The arch of Raithal marks the end of the trek. Indiahikes Campus is half a kilometer down the paved road.
Read More
It takes about 4 hours to reach Raithal, so start your days trek by 9 am. From the Nayata campsite, continue on the main trail you came down from Dayara yesterday. The trail continues to descend under a heavy canopy of forest cover.
Fifteen minutes of descent brings you to the rain shelter from where you diverted to Barnala on the way up. Continue moving down on the main trail.
Continue further for an hour before coming to the grassy clearing with the water source. Take a break here before completing the final hours descent to Raithal. The arch of Raithal marks the end of the trek. Indiahikes Campus is half a kilometer down the paved road.
Continue till you reach the community campus. It brings an end to your enchanting Dayara Bugyal trek.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Drive from Raithal back to Dehradun
Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 185 km
Driving Distance: 185 km
Highlights: Crossing the Tehri Dam and the Tingling Point
Start from Raithal after breakfast. Enjoy the scenic drive back to Dehradun. You are expected to reach Dehradun at around 6.00 PM on this day.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Start from Raithal after breakfast. Enjoy the scenic drive back to Dehradun. You are expected to reach Dehradun at around 6.00 PM on this day.
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult is the Dayara Bugyal Trek
What You Can Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Easy-Moderate Trek
Suitable for Beginners
You will cover a total of around 21 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 4,688 ft (7,142 ft to 11,830 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. But, they are mostly gradual and steady, except the summit climb on Day 4.
The Terrain:
The initial climb into the forest from Raithal is steep. Although there is a well-laid trail, this section will test your stamina.
The final climb to Dayara top is steep. And it gets even more challenging in snow during the winters. Dayara being a meadow, the snow deposits are often several feet deep. This snow section continues until you get to the top, getting steeper as you approach the top.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The trail from Raithal to Gui climbs 2,478 ft within just 4.5 km distance. Stay alert for any signs of Acute Mountain Sickness.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
In case of an emergency at or before Chilapada, you will need to return to Raithal.
If you are near the top, descend to Barsu. These are long distances and evacuation can take 7-8 hours from the farthest point.
Closest Hospital to the Dayara Bugyal Trek:
If a medical emergency occurs, then the District Hospital in Uttarkashi is the closest to you. Uttarkashi can be reached within an hour if you drive from Raithal or Barsu. However, for major medical emergencies, the nearest hospital is in Mussoorie or Dehradun – which is almost 8-9 hours away from the base camp of the trek.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Dayara Bugyal Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Dayara Bugyal is a trek that can be done around the year except during the monsoons. This means that the trek is open and great for almost 8 months in a year.
If we take out the monsoons, we get 4 distinct seasons to experience Dayara Bugyal – Winter, Spring, Summer and Autumn . Each season is different and lovely in its own way.
Dayara Bugyal in Winter
Day time: Between 8 °C and 12 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between -5 °C and -10 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow from the base camp towards the end of December. The entire landscape and valley will be in white.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers.
In winter , people trek to Dayara Bugyal to experience snow. The landscape again changes colour when draped in the white snow. Soft, powdery snowflakes loosely hang from pine trees offering a tinge of Christmas-y feel. Perfect for snowball fights and an experience of snowfall if you’re lucky. However, snow raises the difficulty of the trek by a notch. So, prepare well if you are going in winter.
Watch this video of trekkers singing and trekking at Dayara Bugyal in winter. It will give you a feel of what it is like to be on this trail in winter.
Dayara Bugyal in Spring
Day time temperature: Between 13 °C and 17 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to 0 °C.
Great time to experience the last of the winter snow. The snow starts to recede from the lower campsites when spring sets. The upper reaches of Dayara are still under snow.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers.
Spring in Dayara starts by mid-March and goes on till the end of April. The snows start to melt in the upper reaches while the grass begins to turn green in the lower meadows. Tiny flowers make their heads out of the grass while rhododendrons bloom on the trees.
The upper reaches of the Dayara meadows are usually under snow until mid-April.
Spring is a great time to experience colour contrasts on the meadows. You see snow, greenery and the colour of flowers altogether.
Dayara Bugyal in Summer
Day time temperature: Between 18 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to 5 °C.
Most of the snow has melted, owing to warmer temperature.
No. of warm layers required: 3 warm layers.
Summers are warm on Dayara Bugyal trek. Picture bright green meadows getting toasted under hot sunlight.
There is also a distinct summer fragrance in the air especially as you trek under the shadows of oaks and maples.
The atmosphere also gets hazier as there is a lot of dust and pollen in the air at this time. So, you might not get as sharp views as you get in autumn. But you will see the snow-capped mountains in their grandeur on a clear day.
There’s another plus side to the summers on Dayara Bugyal trek. Without the challenges of cold temperature or snow, this trek is at its easiest in the summers. And so, we open the family batches of Dayara Bugyal trek during this time. It’s a great time to introduce children to the Himalayas.
Dayara Bugyal in Autumn
Day time temperature: Between 12 °C and 15 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to 2 °C.
There is no snow on the trek in the autumn season. The lush greenery on the trail starts to turn golden.
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers.
In autumn , the skies are at their clearest. That’s when you witness the sharp mountain views . Imagine the majestic Gangotri range, Bandarpoonch popping up from the golden meadows under brilliant blue skies. Sounds picturesque, doesn’t it?
And if you wish to capture these ranges through your camera lens, autumn is the perfect time to do so.
Other than the brilliant mountain views, Dayara Bugyal in autumn is a riot of colours. You will witness maple leaves turning fiery red. This is a signature sight in the Himalayas, and against the backdrop of meadows turning golden, well, it is a sight to behold.
Witness these as you trek, inhaling the crisp, pine-scented autumn air.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Dayara Bugyal Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Raithal is the base camp of the Dayara Bugyal Trek.
Nestled amidst the enchanting landscapes of the Uttarkashi district, Raithal is the perfect example of an ancient Garhwali village. It is around 200 km from Dehradun and it takes around 8-9 hours to reach Raithal by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 6.30 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
How to reach Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities. The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs. 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains running between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you the much-needed rest before you start the long drive to Raithal the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Raithal on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Raithal. You first need to reach Uttarkashi and then take a shared jeep to Raithal.
Direct Bus from Dehradun to Uttarkashi and Shared Jeep to Raithal
There is one direct bus from Dehradun to Uttarkashi which leaves at 5:30 AM.
You can book seats on this bus online through the UTC Pathik App . Please note that this bus departs from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It reaches Uttarkashi around 11:30 AM.
From Uttarkashi Bus Stand, walk to the Taxi Stand.
The shared vehicles for Raithal leave from Uttarkashi Taxi Stand between 2-4 PM, when villagers return home from work.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Dayara Bugyal Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing list
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Dayara Bugyal Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Dayara Bugyal Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Dayara Bugyal Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 40 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Where is Dayara Buygal? expand accordion
Dayara Bugyal is a beautiful alpine meadow situated in the northwest part of Uttarakhand in India. It is approximately 45 km from the famous town of Uttarkashi and around 190 km from Dehradun.
To reach Dayara Bugyal, first, make your way to the base camp Raithal. It is a quaint Himalayan village. From there, trek through the beautiful oak, rhododendron and maple forest to the Dayara Bugyal.
What does Bugyal mean? expand accordion
Bugyal (pronounced boog-yaal) is a Hindi word that refers to alpine pasture lands or alpine meadows that grow above around 10,500 ft and below 13,000 ft. These alpine meadows are always found above the treeline, so they’re vast open lands, usually with great scenic views of the mountains and valleys around them.
What kind of accommodation will I find on the trek? expand accordion
At Raithal you will be staying in the Indiahikes Community Campus. You will be staying in Swiss tents.
Whereas on the campsite, you will be staying in tents. Two people will be sharing a tent.
The accommodation is separate for men and women unless you're a couple or a family.
What is the best time to do the Dayara Bugyal trek? expand accordion
Best time to visit Dayara Bugyal is almost throughout the year, except during the monsoon. So, the best season is – spring, summer, autumn and winter. And the trek looks different in all these seasons.
In spring you will find that the snow has freshly melted and green meadows dotted with flowers have started peeping out. Rhododendrons will also be in bloom in the forest. In summer, the meadows are bright and temperatures are warm. Autumn is known for its blue skies and brilliant view of the Bandarpunch range and winter on Dayara Bugyal is magical with undulating meadows blanketed in powdery snow.
How difficult is the Dayara Bugyal Trek? expand accordion
Dayara Bugyal is a perfect trek for beginners. It does not have tricky sections, but a couple of sections on the trek can get challenging. Amongst the high altitude treks on our list (treks that go over 11,000 feet), Dayara Bugyal poses the least risk.
This is why it’s a trek we recommend to many beginners, families and even those starting trekking late in their lives.
The only two challenges you'll face on the trek are these sections:
1. From the basecamp to the forest: This initial 1 km stretch is steep. And although there is a well-laid trail, this section will test your stamina.
2. Climb to Dayara top: The final climb to Dayara top is also steep. And it gets challenging in snow during the winters. As you step out of your campsite for the summit push early in the morning, the snow is going to be hard, having frozen overnight. This snow section continues until you get to the top, getting steeper as you approach the top.
How long is the Dayara Bugyal Trek? expand accordion
The Dayara Bugyal Trek covers around 21 km in 4 days (6 days including the drive to and from the basecamp). The altitude ranges from 7,096 ft in Raithal all the way to Dayara Top at 11,830 ft.
How fit do I need to be to do the Dayara Bugyal trek? expand accordion
A trek like Dayara Bugyal requires a good fitness level. There are gradual ascends and 4-5 hours of trekking every day. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 40 minutes before your trek. It's our minimum mandatory requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 40 minutes.
How many trekkers are in a single group? expand accordion
On the Dayara Bugyal Trek, we usually take around 20- 23 trekkers in total.
Can I take my child along on this trek? What is the age limit? expand accordion
Dayara Bugyal is an easy-moderate trek and requires trekkers to be physically fit. The minimum age for eligibility is 8 years. If your child meets this criterion and is physically fit, you can take her/him along.
When will there be snow on this trek? expand accordion
In winter, people trek to Dayara Bugyal to experience snow. The landscape again changes colour when draped in the white snow. Soft, powdery snowflakes loosely hang from pine trees offering a tinge of Christmas-y feel. Perfect for snowball fights and an experience of snowfall if you’re lucky. However, snow raises the difficulty of the trek by a notch. So, prepare well if you are going in winter.
What is the style of accommodation on this trek? expand accordion
Dayara Bugyal is a 6 day trek. You will be staying at our campus in Raithal and in tents on other days of the trek. Each tent accommodates 2 trekkers.
What are the washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
The basecamp at Raithal will have concrete toilets. On Trek days, toilet tents will be set up along each campsite.
A toilet tent will have a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. There will be a room freshener as well. It’s the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild.
Please use plain toilet paper and refrain from using wet wipes since these are not biodegradable.
What Happens To Your Poop in the Mountains? | Green Trails | Indiahikes
Will there be water sources on the way? Will two litres of water be enough? expand accordion
Our campsites are pitched near water sources. For your day’s trek, two litres of water should be enough. On Day 4 and Day 5, you will find one water source to refill your water bottles. Your trek leader will brief you about these before starting the day’s trek. There will be no water sources on the trail on the other days of trekking.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Dayara Bugyal Trek? expand accordion
When it comes to a mobile phone network and an internet connection, you’ll find network all across your trek. This is true at some spots on the trek including at Dayara Top! However, do not keep your work-related commitments based on this.
As for electricity, Raithal Campus is the last point with electricity. At the Indiahikes base camp in Raithal, all the rooms are equipped with plug points for trekkers to charge their electronic devices.
However, once you leave the base camp, there is no electricity. We suggest you bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Dayara Bugyal Trek? expand accordion
Bhatwari is the last place en route to Raithal where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. However, it has just one ATM which is not always reliable.
Otherwise, in Uttarkashi, all major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Uttarkashi. However, cash does run out quickly at the Uttarkashi ATMs. Hence, Dehradun is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 5000 in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp of Raithal? expand accordion
Yes, you can keep the extra luggage at the base camp. Once the trek ends, you will be able to collect the luggage. Our team will arrange for this.
The transport takes you from Dehradun to the Base. However, you need to walk about 3 floors on foot to get from the basecamp to where you actually stay. We advise you to not bring any luggage that is bulky and heavy.
Ensure you do not keep any valuables at the base. Laptops, mobile phones, cash or any important items cannot be kept here.
What are the places of interest that I can visit before or after the trek? expand accordion
You can spend time exploring tourist attractions around Dehradun. Please note that these are suggestions and Indiahikes does not make any arrangements for visiting them.
Is offloading available for Dayara Bugyal? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Dayara Bugyal trek is Rs 1,600 for the trek pre-tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
How to reach Dayara Bugyal from Dehradun? expand accordion
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets either for Day Minus One , which is the day before Day 1 on the itinerary or book a flight/train as such where you will reach half an hour before the pick-up time.
There are two options for your flight booking:
1. Fly directly to Dehradun:
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Dehradun. Usually, most passengers take taxis from the airport. Try to hook up with co-passengers on the flight for your taxi ride to Dehradun.
2. Flying to Delhi
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. Make sure to book a flight that reaches Delhi by 8.00 pm. You must arrive in Delhi on Day Zero and not on Day 1. Next, book yourself on the Nanda Devi Express to Dehradun (Train No: 12401). It is a fully AC train that leaves at 23.45 hrs from Hazrat Nizamuddin and gets to Dehradun at 5.40 am. At Dehradun, wait for Indiahikes pick up at 6.30 am. Contact your driver by 6.00 am. The number of your transport coordinator will be shared with you a day or two before your departure.
If you miss the Indiahikes pick up from Dehradun. Here is how you can get to Raithal base camp on your own.
If you are at Dehradun, take a bus to Uttarkashi as quickly as you can. A bus generally leaves from Dehradun Railway Station to Uttarkashi at 8:00 am. It charges about Rs 250.
Alternatively, there are local private buses and shared taxis from Lencidon chowk near parade ground to Uttarkashi. The last private bus is at 9:00 am.
From Uttarkashi, take the shared taxis to Bhatwari/Gangotri and get down at Bhatwari. The taxi stand is at a walkable distance if you get down at the bus stand. They will charge you Rs 70. From Bhatwari, Raithal is 10 km away. You can find shared taxis for Raithal from there which charge Rs 30. You will find shared taxis from Bhatwari to Raithal until 4 pm.
What is Dayara Bugyal's temperature in different seasons? expand accordion
Except for the monsoon months, you can do the Dayara Bugyal trek all year round.
Expected temperatures in these seasons:
Spring (Mid March to April): The day time temperatures will be around 15-20 degrees. If the sun goes behind the clouds and there is a bout of rain, then the temperature can fall to around 10 degrees. Expect cold nights at your higher camps. So post sundown, temperatures can drop to around zero but generally will hover around 1-5 degrees.
Summer (May to June): During the day, the temperature hovers around 20 degree celsius and may go up to 25. Nights may go down to 7-10 degree Celsius. The nights are cooler and even though it’s summer you will need 2-3 layers to keep you warm after sun-down.The higher camps are colder at night. Sometimes you may wake up to frosty mornings. So have your layers.
Autumn (Mid-September to November): Autumn is generally like Spring, but a few degrees colder. While trekking, in autumn, day temperatures are pleasant at around 13 – 18 degrees, but any rain or slight drizzle brings down temperature rapidly to around 8 – 12 degrees. You need to keep a pullover handy with you always. Nights can be nippy at slightly below zero at the highest camp. As you move towards late November, it is perceptibly colder. Higher camps are 2-3 degrees below zero. Though, at the lower camps the temperature will hang slightly above zero.
Winter (December - February): During the day when the sun is out, it is quite comfortable to trek. The temperature is a balmy 8 — 12 degrees. If you are on snow, then the snow reflects, which makes it quite warm sometimes! On your early morning summit climb, expect to start in temperatures well below zero. The day will get progressively warmer as the sun touches the ground, even though you may be on snow. Be prepared to shed off your layers as you climb. Night temperatures decrease as you climb up. But expect sub zero temperatures even at your base camps in the evening in winter. At higher camps, you will experience temperature falling below minus 7 or 8 degrees in the night. As long as you are inside your tent and in your layers it is absolutely fine.
How to prepare my child for a high altitude trek? expand accordion
Watch this video by our Experiential Learning team member, Prathima Chhabria, to know how you can prepare your child physically:
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.