Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek 2026 | India’s Best Summit Views Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Deoriatal Chandrashila
A summit climb to one of India's best panoramas
Have Questions? Speak to our Expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Sari: Stay at our cosy Community Campus set in the heart of the Sari village. Take in the intimidating view of the Chandrashila summit, your final destination, right from our campus.
Chaukhamba’s Reflection in Deoriatal: The Deoriatal Lake sits in a forest clearing, with Mt. Chaukhamba rising on the horizon. On clear days, the peak reflects perfectly in the still water.
Chandrashila’s Unmatched Summit Panorama: Chaukhamba straight ahead, Nanda Devi on the skyline and nearly 20 iconic peaks spanning across Garhwal and Kumaon, this is a view that you’ll not forget.
The Meadows of Rohini Bugyal: On Day 3, watch out for the meadows of Rohini Bugyal, a sudden surprise that opens up in the middle of dense jungles. These meadows will leave a lasting impression on you.
The Rhododendrons Near Chopta: In Spring, not patches but entire hillsides turn red. The stretch between Chopta and Tungnath is a feast for the eyes with pink and red rhododendrons. These blooms are also the reason why Deoriatal Chandrashila is a fantastic trek for birdwatchers .
A summit climb to one of India's best panoramas
We have a soft spot for the Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek because of the role Indiahikes played in shaping it. Earlier, Deoriatal and Chopta-Tungnath were done as separate hikes. But when we explored the beautiful forests and meadows of Rohini and Ropini in between, we knew this had to be one trek. Today, that’s the standard route.
But even with these forests and meadows, what truly stands out is the Chandrashila summit. At Indiahikes, we’ve stood at stunning Himalayan viewpoints like Kuari Top and Tapovan. But most show peaks from just one region. From Kuari Top, you see the grand Garhwal mountains. From Tapovan, you get a close view of the Gangotri range. But Chandrashila offers a sweeping panorama of the most iconic peaks of both Garhwal and Kumaon. This is unparalleled.
Rhododendrons in bloom make spring one of the best times to do the Deoriatal–Chandrashila Trek. Here’s a photostory that shows you how the trail looks in this season.
play video
On your left are the Gangotri group of peaks, the Kedarnath, the Kedar dome, Mandani Parbat and Janhukut. The imposing Chaukhamba is right in front. Most of them are over 7,000 meters tall. On your right are the Gauri Parbat, Hathi Parbat and Dunagiri. And then right ahead, standing against the skyline in India’s tallest mountain, Mt Nanda Devi, flanked by Nanda Ghunti and Trishul. If you are there at sunrise, you see the Sun rise right behind Nanda Devi. The first rays touch Chaukhamba. We’ve seen many trekkers moved to tears by this sight.
Read more
expand overview
On your left are the Gangotri group of peaks, the Kedarnath, the Kedar dome, Mandani Parbat and Janhukut. The imposing Chaukhamba is right in front. Most of them are over 7,000 meters tall. On your right are the Gauri Parbat, Hathi Parbat and Dunagiri. And then right ahead, standing against the skyline in India’s tallest mountain, Mt Nanda Devi, flanked by Nanda Ghunti and Trishul. If you are there at sunrise, you see the Sun rise right behind Nanda Devi. The first rays touch Chaukhamba. We’ve seen many trekkers moved to tears by this sight.
What makes the climb to Chandrashila summit special is the perfect balance it offers. It’s not too tough, like Pangarchulla, but still gives you the full feel of a summit push. You begin in the dark, take on a steady climb, and earn your summit. This mix of challenge and accessibility is rarely found on other treks.
There is so much to love about the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek. Right from the grand reflection of Mt. Chaukhamba on the still waters of Deoriatal, to the dense, untouched forests, quiet meadows, and the charming Akashkamini stream—it’s a trek that surprises you at every step. In spring, the trail bursts to life with rhododendrons in every shade of red and pink. In winter, it turns into a snow-covered wonderland.
5 Things We Love About the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
1) The Chandrashila Summit’s Panoramic Views
Standing at the Chandrashila summit feels like being on top of the world. To your left, you see the Gangotri range. Right in front of you is the imposing Chaukhamba massif. And further ahead stands India’s tallest mountain, Mt Nanda Devi, side by side with Mt Trishul and Mt Nanda Ghunti. You see almost 20 iconic peaks, each of them close to or more than 7000 m above sea-level.
2) Deoriatal Lake and Mt Chaukhamba
The Deoriatal Lake is a gem of this trek. Nestled amidst dense forests, the lake is serene and magical, especially with the towering Mt Chaukhamba reflected in its waters. For many trekkers, this view alone justifies the entire trek. The lake, surrounded by snow in winter, makes an even more picture-perfect spot.
3) Rhododendron Blooms in Spring
In spring, the trek transforms into a riot of colours as rhododendrons bloom in abundance. The trail is alive with vivid pinks, reds, and scarlets, creating a surreal atmosphere. Entire hillsides near Chopta turn red with rhododendron blossoms. This makes Deoriatal Chandrashila one of the most popular rhododendron treks of India.
4) The Thrill of the Summit Climb
The climb from Chopta to the Chandrashila summit is an adventure in itself. The ascent is challenging yet exhilarating. You witness the landscape transform as the trek climbs from dense forests to bouldery alpine zones. Reaching the summit brings a sense of accomplishment that trekkers cherish forever.
5) Birdwatcher’s Paradise
The trek is a haven for bird lovers. The Deoriatal region is teeming with birdlife. You walk amidst their cheerful company throughout the trek. Near the Tunganath temple, you can spot the vibrant Himalayan Monal, Uttarakhand’s state bird.
The variety on the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek over just 4 days of Moderate-Level trekking is mindboggling. Add to it the one-of-a-kind climb to Chandrashila and the sweeping views from the summit—you just can’t take your eyes off this trek.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Deoriatal Chandrashila : Take on the adventure of trekking to Deoriatal Chandrashila, A summit climb to one of India's best panoramas, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Sari Campus: Stay in gender-specific dorm rooms at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Sari on Day 1 to dinner at Sari on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1250 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (onwards) and ₹1400 for return (₹2650 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 1,600 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Deoriatal Chandrashila - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
A trek map of the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek
Day 1
Drive from Rishikesh to Sari
Drive Distance: 190 km | Drive Duration: 7-8 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Pick up Time: 7.00 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Sari
Transport will be arranged at 7 am sharp. This costs Rs 1250 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (onwards) for the journey from Rishikesh to Sari. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Note : The process of your registration, health screening , and document verification starts at 4 pm. Ensure you reach Sari on time if you are travelling on your own.
Day 2
Trek from Sari to Deoriatal
Trek Distance: 4.1 km | Trek Duration: 2.5 hours | Altitude Gain: 6,560 ft to 7810 ft
Day 3
Trek from Deoriatal to Syalmi via Rohini Bugyal
Trek Distance: 9.10 km | Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Altitude Loss: 7810 ft to 7600 ft via 9,020 ft
Day 4
Trek from Syalmi to Baniya Kund
Trek Distance: 5.40 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude Gain: 7600 ft to 8,520 ft
Day 5
Trek from Baniya Kund to Chandrashila via Tungnath and drive back to Sari from Chopta
Trek Distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude Gain: 8,520 ft to 12,083 ft via 11410 ft | Drive Distance: 21km | Drive Duration: 1.5 hours
Please note: The fare of this vehicle will be added to your final fare on your way to Rishikesh.
Day 6
Drive from Sari to Rishikesh
Drive Distance: 190 kms | Drive Duration: 7-8 hours | Drop off point for Indiahikes trekkers:: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Drop off Time: 6 pm
Indiahikes will arrange transport for your drop off to Rishikesh. You will reach Rishikesh between 6 pm. On the return journey to Rishikesh, the cab costs Rs.1400/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (return) . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Rishikesh to Sari
Drive Duration: 7-8 hours drive | Drive Distance: 190 km
Altitude: 6,560 ft
Highlights: The journey is picturesque, as you pass through Devprayag, the confluence of rivers Alaknanda and Bhagirathi forms the river Ganga. The entire journey traverses the mountainside, with the river flowing.
Sari is a small village that you can explore. You can spend time at the campus and to getting to know more about your team members or the story of how the campus was built.
Sari , the base camp of the Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek, is an 8-hour drive from Rishikesh. The journey is picturesque, as you pass through Devaprayag, the confluence of rivers Alakananda and Bhagirathi to form the river Ganga. The entire journey traverses the mountainside, with the river flowing below you. A quick tip: Pick the window seat on the right to enjoy the views!
Sari is a small village with around 100 houses. If you reach Sari when the sun is still out, go down to the village and walk around. The paddy fields are so prettily laid out that they almost beckon to you. There is a small school amidst the fields. This school was built in 1947 and is the only school at Sari. The views around the village are gorgeous. This is also where you’ll get your first glimpse of the summit of Chandrashila!
You arrive at our Indiahikes Basecamp of Sari.
Read More
Sari , the base camp of the Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek, is an 8-hour drive from Rishikesh. The journey is picturesque, as you pass through Devaprayag, the confluence of rivers Alakananda and Bhagirathi to form the river Ganga. The entire journey traverses the mountainside, with the river flowing below you. A quick tip: Pick the window seat on the right to enjoy the views!
Sari is a small village with around 100 houses. If you reach Sari when the sun is still out, go down to the village and walk around. The paddy fields are so prettily laid out that they almost beckon to you. There is a small school amidst the fields. This school was built in 1947 and is the only school at Sari. The views around the village are gorgeous. This is also where you’ll get your first glimpse of the summit of Chandrashila!
You arrive at our Indiahikes Basecamp of Sari.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Sari to Deoriatal
Trek Duration: 2.5-3 hours | Trek Distance: 4.1km
Altitude Gain: 6,560 ft to 7810 ft
Difficulty: Easy. The day starts from the village by climbing a few stairs, followed by a gradual climb on a well-defined rocky trail. A short walk on even terrain after an hour of climbing takes you to the campsite.
Highlights: Take in the pretty view of vast farmlands as you start your ascent from Sari. Watch out for the first sights of rhododendron trees. Do not miss the sunset at Deoriatal with the mighty Chaukhambha massif looming in the background.
The adventure starts at Sari . Exit the campsite and take the left trail that you took to reach the campsite the day before. After about 100 meters, take a trail that goes straight towards Deoriatal. This is a well-defined rocky trail and is quite steep. After approximately 15 minutes, you will come across a road head. Spot the village houses around. Take in the pretty view of vast farmlands from here.
After about 45 minutes of a hike, the trail becomes less steep. The forest has been cleared here, so you will get a good view all around. At the valley facing the end, you can see the summit of Chandrashila and below it, the holy Tungnath temple. You may need binoculars to spot the temple.
Note: Tungnath temple opens only in summer and closes by Diwali.
Read More
The adventure starts at Sari . Exit the campsite and take the left trail that you took to reach the campsite the day before. After about 100 meters, take a trail that goes straight towards Deoriatal. This is a well-defined rocky trail and is quite steep. After approximately 15 minutes, you will come across a road head. Spot the village houses around. Take in the pretty view of vast farmlands from here.
After about 45 minutes of a hike, the trail becomes less steep. The forest has been cleared here, so you will get a good view all around. At the valley facing the end, you can see the summit of Chandrashila and below it, the holy Tungnath temple. You may need binoculars to spot the temple.
Note: Tungnath temple opens only in summer and closes by Diwali.
From here, you will need to follow the trail that winds up the mountain ridge. After a steady uphill trek for about 20-30 minutes, you will reach Ropini Bugyal. This spot is ideally located to relax and feast your eyes with a grand view of the mountains and the Ukhimat side of the valley. Turn back and witness the magnificent sight of Mt Chaukhamba from here.
From here, take the trail that goes by a beautiful rhododendron and maple forest. After a steady hike of ten minutes, you will reach the second viewpoint.
Now, at 7,434 feet, Sari is no longer visible. With only a kilometre left, you will find yourself at the backside of the mountain and you will get a view of the Ukhimath side of the valley, though only for a while. You are now nearing your destination.
After a very short downhill trek, your surroundings open up to a grand view of Deoriatal, with Mt. Chaukhambha massif looming in the background.
The lake is also called Devariya Tal because it’s believed that devis (Goddesses) once came to the lake to take a dip. Alternatively, one can also start the trek from Ukhimath by taking another trekking route over the mountain for an 8 km steep incline trek to Sari. However, if you are short of time, this can be avoided. You can instead proceed to Sari via road.
Photo Point: There’s a watchtower close to the lake that gives you grand views of the surrounding mountains.
Camping beside Deoriatal is not allowed anymore. So you will need to camp ahead where camping is allowed by the forest department. About 400 metres of ascent through a forest section lead you to the campsite space. The beauty of the view generally intensifies in the morning, when the clouds have cleared to offer unreal views of the hills.
Note: Do not miss the sunset from Deoriatal. The alpen glow of Mt Chaukhamba and the reflections of it over the lake is a beautiful sight to behold.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Deoriatal to Syalmi via Rohini Bugyal
Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Trek Distance: 9.1 km
Altitude Loss: 7810 ft to 7600 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent followed by 45 minutes of steep descent, easing off after an hour of ascent to reach Rohini Bugyal. After 20 minutes of gradual ascent, comes the steeper ascent for an hour and a half to the Syalmi campsite.
Highlights: Enjoy the trail through the thick forest cover till you reach Syalmi, your campsite for the day. This is a quiet section of the forest with an abundance of birds. Now and then, the Kedar Dome and Chaukhamba peaks peek at you through the trees on your left. Rohini Bugyal is a beautiful clearing to spend some time on your way.
Walk from the campsite towards Jhandi Top in the south-east direction. A lovely forest trail awaits you. Full of rhododendron and maple trees, the trail is a picturesque one. Now and then, the Kedar Dome and Chaukhamba peaks peek at you through the trees on your left.
After 15 minutes of forest walk from the guest house, look for a small clearing as you exit the forest. In front of you, the Chandrashila peak is visible. Below, towards your right, you can see Sari village again. Observe the open expanse and a view of the forested ridge. This is the logical route of the forest ridge trek to the base of Chandrashila Peak.
Take the ascending trail ahead of you as you get much better views from both sides of the valley. Towards your left, you can see the mountain ridge, from where a trail to Madhmaheshwar and Nandikund trek passes.
Read More
Walk from the campsite towards Jhandi Top in the south-east direction. A lovely forest trail awaits you. Full of rhododendron and maple trees, the trail is a picturesque one. Now and then, the Kedar Dome and Chaukhamba peaks peek at you through the trees on your left.
After 15 minutes of forest walk from the guest house, look for a small clearing as you exit the forest. In front of you, the Chandrashila peak is visible. Below, towards your right, you can see Sari village again. Observe the open expanse and a view of the forested ridge. This is the logical route of the forest ridge trek to the base of Chandrashila Peak.
Take the ascending trail ahead of you as you get much better views from both sides of the valley. Towards your left, you can see the mountain ridge, from where a trail to Madhmaheshwar and Nandikund trek passes.
Photo Point: After 15 minutes of climbing the ridge, look out for the highest point of the ridge nearest to you. This hill-top has a flag post. This is Jhandi Dhar/ Jhandi Top.
In March and April, the trail is blazing with red and pink flowers of rhododendron. After 15 minutes of following the laid trail, you reach the top of Jhandi Dhar. The ridge has a small flat ground with unobstructed views from all sides. You can see the Sari side of the valley, Mt Chaukhamba, Kedarnath and other snow-clad peaks. The forest continues to thicken throughout the trek. If you thought the forests until now were dense, you haven’t seen the start of it.
From here, proceed and take the trail that descends rapidly and connects with the forest ridge below. The descent is sharp but pleasant. After 10-15 minutes, the trail takes an eventful turn as you enter the forest ridge from the left. The flora of the region is stupendous.
Now and then, you might come across small shrines with bright yellow flags tied to them. These are all made by tourists and locals. You can use them as landmarks to ensure you’re on the right trail. Also, keep an eye out for wild animals such as foxes and leopards.
Keep walking on a leisurely downhill trail inside a generous cover of the forest, which will give you respite from the late morning sun. This is a quiet section of the forest with an abundance of birds. The Himalayan woodpecker and Verditer Flycatcher can easily be spotted here. Walk for another 20 minutes, until you see three trails branching out.
Take the centre trail that ascends gradually. This is the trail to Rohini Bugyal.
After 20 minutes of gradual ascent, you’ll walk on level land for around 10 minutes. From here, the trail opens to small pasture land. You exit the forest even as the view of Chandrashila peak greets you upfront. Just before you, you see the second forest ridge that needs to be traversed.
Take the trail from the right side of the connecting ridge. It passes by a small grassland. The trail ascends sharply as you re-enter the forest once. This part of the forest has some of the oldest oak, maple, and rhododendron trees of the Kedarnath Sanctuary .
Another 20 minutes of trekking will have you reach the next landmark of the day, which is next to a small temple. This is known as Bhagdwal by the locals.
By now, you have trekked approximately 5 km. Three trails are branching out from here. The one towards the right descends sharply and reconnects with Sari Village. The one that descends from the left goes to a local village near Ukhimath. Take the centre trail and walk for 15-20 minutes till you reach a small meadow.
From here, you can see Kala Parvat, which is a peak located on the right of Chandrashila peak. Below Kala, Parvat is a small glacial lake, called Bisuri Tal/Bisudi Tal . Legend has it, the Pandavas hid their weapons here.
The trail from here is a leisurely walk ahead for about 30 minutes as you pass a small rivulet. The stream is the only source of water and it is advisable to fill your bottles here. Rohini Bugyal is about 500 meters of a climb from your right side.
Photo Point: Rohini Bugyal is a small meadow surrounded by beautiful rhododendron forest and a view of the Kedar Dome and the Kala Parvat peaks. The sunset view from here is incomparable!
After a bit of an ascent in the forest section from Rohini Bugyal, we reach the highest point for the day. Later it’s a steep descent to the Syalmi meadow. It's a wildlife hotspot! You can spot foxes, snakes and griffons; Another 20 minutes of an ascent from here takes you to the Syalmi Campsite.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Syalmi to Baniya Kund
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek DIstance: 5.4 km
Altitude Gain: 7600 ft to 8,520 ft
Difficulty: Easy-moderate. An hour of descending till Akashkamini river, followed by a steep ascent through dense forest. And after an hour of climbing, you will see the first Chaniya and from there, it’s a series of ascent and descend till Baniya Kund.
Highlights: The whole day's setting is so pretty, that you might want to take some time to soak it in. The forest again is very dense. Fill in your water bottles and drink from the cold natural streams of the Akashkamini river.
Start off in the south-east direction from the Syalmi campsite. The trail descends rapidly to Akash Kamini, a rivulet coming from Chandrashila. Pause here and take some photos by this gurgling stream. It takes 20-30 minutes to reach the stream. Replenish your water supplies here. There is a small bridge to cross.
Note: This bridge gets washed away in case of heavy rains. But if the water level is low, it can be crossed without the help of a bridge.
From here, take the trail that now ascends gradually with a series of three scissor bends. As you climb up, the view of the valley gets better and better. Around 20 minutes of the steady climb will take you to a small meadow called Shamkhudi Bugyal.
Read More
Start off in the south-east direction from the Syalmi campsite. The trail descends rapidly to Akash Kamini, a rivulet coming from Chandrashila. Pause here and take some photos by this gurgling stream. It takes 20-30 minutes to reach the stream. Replenish your water supplies here. There is a small bridge to cross.
Note: This bridge gets washed away in case of heavy rains. But if the water level is low, it can be crossed without the help of a bridge.
From here, take the trail that now ascends gradually with a series of three scissor bends. As you climb up, the view of the valley gets better and better. Around 20 minutes of the steady climb will take you to a small meadow called Shamkhudi Bugyal.
There is a series of shepherd huts here made of stones. In summer, you will find locals occupying the huts with their livestock. Continue further to reach a nursery of medicinal plants. After about 10 minutes of descent through a jungle trail, you would come upon a road head. Walk for another 100 metres to reach the Baniya Kund campsite.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Baniya Kund to Chandrashila Peak via Tungnath and drive back to Sari from Chopta
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 13 km
Drive Duration: 1.5 hours drive
Altitude Gain: 8,520 ft to 12,083 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent to Tungnath followed by a steep climb to Chandrashila for about an hour. The descent on the same path takes around an hour and a half to reach back to Chopta.
Highlights: The big day of the summit to Chandrashila. Look out for Monals nesting in the trees or on the ground. The sunrise and the sunset view from Chandrashila are the best you will get to see in all of the Himalayas.
From Baniya Kund campsite, you need to trek first until Chopta which is around 1.5 km. The trek from Chopta to Tungnath is accessible via a cemented pilgrim trail.
About 100 meters of the climb from Chopta is where you have the forest checkpost. You can obtain the trekking slip by paying a fee (Free for children below 5 years of age, Rs 38 for students between 5 and 18 years of age, Rs 150 for an adult, Rs 75 for seniors or students above 18 years and Rs 600 if you are a foreigner) that is valid for 3 days.
Note: You are not allowed to go trek before 8 am during the winter season. And you cannot start your trek after 2 pm. So plan your start time accordingly.
Read More
From Baniya Kund campsite, you need to trek first until Chopta which is around 1.5 km. The trek from Chopta to Tungnath is accessible via a cemented pilgrim trail.
About 100 meters of the climb from Chopta is where you have the forest checkpost. You can obtain the trekking slip by paying a fee (Free for children below 5 years of age, Rs 38 for students between 5 and 18 years of age, Rs 150 for an adult, Rs 75 for seniors or students above 18 years and Rs 600 if you are a foreigner) that is valid for 3 days.
Note: You are not allowed to go trek before 8 am during the winter season. And you cannot start your trek after 2 pm. So plan your start time accordingly.
The trek up to Tungnath temple is approximately 3 km. It ascends sharply via a series of 11 scissor bends. The walk is pleasant but is a very steep climb. After you reach the 10th scissor bend, look for a flag and a small open temple towards your right side.
You can now see Chandrashila peak and the Tungnath temple complex at the base of the peak. The views from here onwards are incredible. A connecting peak leading to Chandrashila, known as Ravanshila, is visible to your right. Tungnath temple is only half a kilometre away from here.
Towards your left, overlooking the valley is a section of Birch trees (Bhojpatra). This is a haven for birds like Monal and Griffin vulture. Take the 11th and last bend to reach the famous and holy Tungnath temple. The temple is closed in winter and you will find snow here from late December until around April.
Folklore: Tungnath temple is the third of the Panch Kedars . These are 5 temples believed to have been built by the Pandavas to atone for the sins of killing their kin and Brahmins in the Kurukshetra war in the Mahabharata. Lord Shiva, whose forgiveness they sought, disguised himself as a bull. Parts of this bull appeared in 5 different places, each of these identified as a Panch Kedar. Tungnath is where his hands and chest are said to have appeared. This place has the distinction of being the only temple in the world to be located at such a high altitude (12,083 ft).
Chandrashila peak is 1.5 km above the temple complex. The route to Chandrashila peak is from behind the temple complex. Pass by the local dormitories and take the trail that winds from the right side of the base of Chandrashila peak. A trail goes by from here and takes a series of scissor bends.
During winter, expect this trail to be completely buried in snow. Those planning to do a winter trek here are strongly advised to carry crampons/microspikes and an ice axe (Registered Indiahikes trekkers get microspikes as part of their trek). The climb from Tungnath to Chandrashila is a 600 ft ascent and is a very steep climb.
After you negotiate a series of switchbacks, you will reach the upper base of Chandrashila Peak. From here, the summit of Chandrashila is visible. The climb up to the summit takes 30-45 minutes.
Once at the top of the peak, you get a 360-degree view of the mountains of Garhwal and Kumaon. Walk past a temple and see some great mountains of Uttarakhand, like Nanda Devi, Trishul, Nanda Ghunti, Kamet, Dunagiri, Chaukhamba, Kedar dome, Thalaysagar, Gangotri ranges, Jahanukut and more.
Photo Point: The sunrise view from this spot is the best you will get to see in all of the Himalayas.
At Chandrashila, you find another temple dedicated to Lord Shiva. This is believed to have been built by Rama to atone for the sin of killing Ravana. This temple is open from April to October.
The deity is moved to Makkumath in winter.
Take the same trail back to Chopta (which is via the same route taken to and from Baniya kund). It takes around 45 minutes to reach Tungnath and another hour and a half to reach Baniyakund from Tungnath.
Drive back to Sari from Chopta.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Drive from Sari to Rishikesh
Drive Duration: 7-8 hours | Driving Distance: 190 km
Driving Distance: 190 km
Board your cabs from here for a drive back to Rishikesh. You will reach Rishikesh between 3:00 to 4:00 pm.
Cab costs will be approximately Rs 8,000 per Bolero and Rs 12,000 per Tempo Traveler on the way back.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Board your cabs from here for a drive back to Rishikesh. You will reach Rishikesh between 3:00 to 4:00 pm.
Cab costs will be approximately Rs 8,000 per Bolero and Rs 12,000 per Tempo Traveler on the way back.
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult Is the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate Trek
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 32 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,523 ft (6,560 ft to 12,083 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. But, they are mostly gradual and steady, except for the summit climb on Day 5.
The Terrain:
Trekking on the Deoriatal Chandrashila trail in winter can be tricky. Your final high-altitude camp before you attempt the Chandrashila summit is Baniyakund. As you leave the campsite early in the morning, the snow will be hard, having frozen overnight. This snow section continues until you get to the Chandrashila summit, getting steeper as you approach the summit.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
The Chandrashila summit is known for fast and strong winds. So make sure you are well-layered.
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
In the Autumn season, the temperatures may plummet below zero. Layering well is the key.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Even though the Chandrashila summit is at an altitude of 12,083 ft, the climb is gradual. This makes acclimatisation easy. Yet, stay prepared.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
There are multiple entry and exit points throughout the trek.
Chopta-Baniyakund roadhead to Sari
Rohini Bugyal via Baniyakund/Chopta to Sari
Closest Hospital to the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek:
The closest hospital is in Ukimath, which is about 15 km by road from Sari. However, for any advanced treatment, heading to Dehradun is the best option. However, for major medical emergencies, the nearest hospital is in Mussoorie, which is almost 8-9 hours away from the base camp of the trek.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Even though Chopta Chandrashila or Deoriatal Chandrashila is a high-altitude trek, it can be done for almost 8-9 months in the year. The trek is accessible for 10 months of the year except for July and August (the peak rainy in Uttarakhand).
If we take out the monsoons, we get 4 distinct seasons to experience Deoriatal Chandrashila – Winter, Spring, Summer, and Autumn . Each season is different and lovely in its way.
Deoriatal Chandrashila in Winter
Day time: Between 8 °C and 14 °C | Night time: Will drop to temperatures between -6 °C and -10 °C.
Presence of snow: You will find snow from the base camp towards January. The entire landscape and valley will be in white from December to the end of February
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
In winter , people trek to Deoriatal Chandrashila to experience snow and the mighty views from the trek. The landscape again changes colour when draped in the white snow. Soft, powdery snowflakes loosely hang from pine trees offering a tinge of Christmas-y feel. Perfect for snowball fights and an experience of snowfall if you’re lucky. However, snow raises the difficulty of the trek by a notch. So, prepare well if you are going in winter.
Deoriatal Chandrashila in Spring
Day time temperature: Between 13 °C and 17 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero
Great time to experience the last of the winter snow. The snow starts to recede from the lower campsites when spring sets. The upper reaches of Chandrashila and Tungnath are still under snow.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
Spring in Deoriatal Chandrashila starts in early March and goes on till the end of April. The snows start to melt in the upper reaches while the grass begins to turn green in the lower meadows. Tiny flowers make their heads out of the grass while rhododendrons bloom on the trees The upper reaches of the trek are usually under snow until mid-April.
Spring is a great time to experience colour contrasts on the meadows. You see snow, greenery and the colour of flowers altogether.
Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek in Summer
Day time temperature: Between 18 °C and 24 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop around 3-8 °C
No. of warm layers required: 2 warm layers
Summers bring out a green colour palette on this trek, one that you might not witness in any other season.
The forests and meadows look bright and sunny during May-June . Early in June, slopes may receive light summer showers and the flora turns lush.
The trek is at its easiest and is a great getaway from the summer heat of the plains. It also makes for the perfect time to introduce children to the Himalayas during the summer vacations .
Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek in Autumn
Day time temperature: Between 10 °C and 15 °C | Night time temperature: Will drop to zero
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
The next best time to do the trek would be in the post-monsoon months of September, October and November . Post monsoon, the sky is washed clean of all the haze.
And it’s a perfect time for the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek which is known for the stunning views of the Garhwal Himalayas . It is in autumn that you get the clearest views of these mountains.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Sari is the base camp of the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek. Sari is a 400-year-old village located right in the heart of Uttarakhand. It is around 7-8 hours by road from Rishikesh .
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 7.00 am from Live Free Hostel . Arrive in Rishikesh by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rishikesh:
How to reach Rishikesh? Rishikesh does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rishikesh is to:
Fly to Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun , which is about 1-hour away from Rishikesh
Fly to Delhi and take a train to Haridwar (30 km from Rishikesh )
Fly to Delhi and take an overnight bus to Rishikesh.
How to reach Rishikesh by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Rishikesh.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Rishikesh by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Haridwar. From Haridwar, it is just 30 km to Rishikesh.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Rishikesh by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Rishikesh on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Karchi the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Rishikesh:
You can retrace the same journey back from Rishikesh to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Sari on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun or Rishikesh to Sari. You have to travel to Rudraprayag or Ukhimath first and then take a shared cab to Sari.
Key Travel Tips:
Book the Dehradun-Ukhimath bus online through the UTC Pathik App .
Plan your journey from Ukhimath to Sari early to get shared cabs before they stop running.
Confirm local transport availability as shared cabs depend on demand.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns you may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
How long is Chandrashila trek? expand accordion
The Deoriatal Chandrashila covers around 27 km in 4 days. (6 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 6,560 ft in Sari all the way to Chandrashila top at 12,083 ft.
How difficult is the Chandrashila trek? expand accordion
The Deoriatal Chandrashila trek is a moderate one. It does not have too many steep climbs (except the summit push to Chandrashila). It does not have many long days.
Compared to all our Himalayan treks, this is perhaps the easiest one. It’s a good trek for beginners, families and children.
Having said that, it is still a trek in the Himalayas with difficulties in terrain, temperatures and weather.
What is the best time to do the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek? expand accordion
The Deoriatal Chandrashila trek is great all year round. But the best time to do the trek is hands-down, the months of March and April. This is when you’ll still see snow on the trek, but you’ll also see blossoming Himalayan rhododendrons.
The next best time to do the trek would be in the post-monsoon months of September, October and November. The Deoriatal Chandrashila trek is known for stunning views of the Garhwal Himalayas, and after the monsoon, when the sky is squeaky clean, devoid of any mist/clouds, you get the clearest views of these big mountains.
Another great time for a snow experience on the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek is the month of December. This is the onset of winter when it just starts snowing. The snow isn’t too thick to block the trail. It isn’t so thin that it disappears within a few days either.
It’s a wonderful time to camp in the snow and trek in the snow. Perfect for snowball fights and an experience of snowfall if you’re lucky.
Is there snow in Chandrashila? expand accordion
There is snow on the Chandrashila trek from December to the end of April. The first winter snowfalls by mid-December, and the trail usually remains accessible till the end of December.
Between January and February, which are peak winter months, the trails become difficult to access because of very high snow. We would suggest the Chandrashila trek in these months if snow is what you are looking for.
At the beginning of March, when the snow starts melting slightly, it is one of the best times to do the trek. The best time to do the Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek would be the months of March and April when there is still a lot of snow, lush greenery and flowering rhododendron forests.
How fit do I need to be to do the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek? expand accordion
A trek like Deoriatal Chandrashila requires a good fitness level. There are gradual ascents, steep ascent to the top and 5-6 hours of trekking every day. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. It's our minimum mandatory requirement. Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
Is Chopta safe? expand accordion
Chopta is safe for trekkers and tourists. It is quite trekker-friendly, with guesthouses and homestays. Since it is in a remote location, expect basic facilities here.
Having said that, trekkers wonder about the safety of Chopta because of the presence of wild animals. Chopta is situated within the Kedarnath Reserve National Park. There have been sightings of foxes and jackals in the past. But they do not usually come in when there is a lot of tourist activity.
At Indiahikes, we have been trekking from Chopta to Chandrashila since 2015 and have not seen any danger to trekkers. Since the road ends at Chopta, it’s quite populated and does not have too many wild animals.
Can I take my child on the Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek? expand accordion
If your child is above 10 years, yes, we would highly recommend the Deoriatal-Chandrashila trek. They will have a mix of easy and challenging trails.
On the other hand, if your child is below 10, avoid this trek. The second day and the summit day are very long. We have seen very young children below 10 struggle or fail to complete the trek because of the exertion.
How many trekkers are in a single group? expand accordion
On the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek, we usually take around 20- 23 trekkers in total.
What are the washroom/toilet facilities like on the trek? expand accordion
Our Campus at Sari will have concrete toilets. On Trek days, toilet tents will be set up along each campsite. A toilet tent will have a deep pit, where one can answer nature’s call. There will be a mound of soil and a shovel to cover it up. These are dry toilets, where you’ll have to use toilet paper. There will be a room freshener as well. It’s the most hygienic and convenient way to answer nature’s call in the wild.
Please use plain toilet paper and refrain from using wet wipes since these are not biodegradable.
What Happens To Your Poop in the Mountains? | Green Trails | Indiahikes
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Deoriatal Chandrashila Trek? expand accordion
When it comes to a mobile phone network and an internet connection, you’ll find a good network all across your trek. You will get a 4G network even at Chandrashila Top!
As for electricity, Sari Campus is the last point with electricity. At the Indiahikes base camp in Sari, all the rooms are equipped with plug points for trekkers to charge their electronic devices.
However, once you leave the base camp, there is no electricity. We suggest you bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp in Sari? expand accordion
Yes, you can keep the extra luggage at the base camp. Once the trek ends, you will be able to collect the luggage. Our team will arrange for this.
Ensure you do not keep any valuables at the base. Laptops, mobile phones, cash or any important items cannot be kept here.
What is the style of accommodation on this trek? expand accordion
Deoriatal Chandrashila is a 6-day trek. You will be staying at our campus in Sari and in tents on other days of the trek. Each tent accommodates 2 trekkers.
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Is offloading available for this trek? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters, horses or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on the Deoriatal Chandrashila trek is Rs 1,600 for the trek pre-tax.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Where is the closest hospital to the base camp? expand accordion
Rudraprayag Government Hospital, Rudraprayag, Uttarakhand is the closest hospital to the base camp (Sari).
There is another hospital in Ukhimath. But we do not recommend this as it does not have many basic facilities.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.