Gaumukh Tapovan Trek 2026 | Trek to the Source of River Ganga Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
A Journey to the Source of River Ganga
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have expert Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
Starting Your Trek at Gangotri: At 10,000 ft, Gangotri is one of the highest starting points of any of our treks. With the Bhagirathi flowing past and the marble-white Gangotri temple, it is also one of the most spiritual.
Birth of the River Ganga at Gaumukh: Witness Gaumukh, the massive snout of Gangotri Glacier. A ten-storey wall of glacial ice, cracking and calving before your eyes, Bhagirathi gushing out from beneath in a roaring flow.
Mt. Shivling at Tapovan: Arguably one of India’s most beautiful Himalayan Peaks, you see it from base to summit at Tapovan. Witnessing the first light of dawn touching its tip moves trekkers to tears.
Bhagirathi Sisters Burning at Sunset: Watch alpenglow sweep the Bhagirathi massif — thousands of metres of rock and ice turning orange, gold, then purple as the last light of day fades.
A Journey to the Source of River Ganga
The Gaumukh Tapovan trek is a journey like no other. It takes you to the very source of the River Ganga, a place of immense spiritual and natural significance. It is an unparalleled mix of adventure, breathtaking landscapes, and a chance to stand at the origin of one of the most revered rivers in the world.
The Gaumukh Tapovan experience starts right from the base at Gangotri, a bustling pilgrim town. The trail then winds through the heart of the Gangotri National Park. This trek is not just about reaching a destination. It allows you a connection with nature that is both humbling and inspiring.
play video
It is a journey through dense forests, vast glaciers, and high-altitude meadows. They lead you to Gaumukh, the snout of Bhagirathi river and then onwards to the spectacular setting of Tapovan. Towering mountains surround you at every turn on the Gaumukh Tapovan trek. At the Tapovan campsite, you see the perfect shape of Mt Shivling from the base to its top. The Bhagirathi sisters form a grand massif. Witnessing the golden hues of sunset on the Bhagirathi massif is an unforgettable experience.
Read more
expand overview
It is a journey through dense forests, vast glaciers, and high-altitude meadows. They lead you to Gaumukh, the snout of Bhagirathi river and then onwards to the spectacular setting of Tapovan. Towering mountains surround you at every turn on the Gaumukh Tapovan trek. At the Tapovan campsite, you see the perfect shape of Mt Shivling from the base to its top. The Bhagirathi sisters form a grand massif. Witnessing the golden hues of sunset on the Bhagirathi massif is an unforgettable experience.
But, at its heart, the Gaumukh Tapovan trek is all about standing at Gaumukh, the massive glacial snout where the Bhagirathi River originates. It is about clambering over crevasses and watching drops of melting ice fall into the muddy headstream of Bhagirathi. It is about witnessing nature in its most raw, powerful and humbling form.
Who can do it?
Over five days of trekking, you cover approximately 41 km. Although there are long stretches of level walk, the entire trek happens over 10,000 feet above sea-level. Gangotri is one of our highest base camps. Thus, altitude itself is a major challenge on this trek. You also cross several rock-fall zones and the steep moraine section leading to Tapovan is a sheer test of physical and mental endurance. While it is a challenging trek, even beginners can take it on with the right preparation.
What Makes this Trek Special
1) The Magnificent Gangotri Glacier: The Gangotri glacier is unlike anything you’ll see elsewhere. Standing at its snout is awe-inspiring. Imagine a ten-storey-high wall of ice, from which massive chunks regularly fall, sending tremors through the ground. Watching the Bhagirathi River emerge in full flow from beneath the glacier is a sight that leaves you speechless.
2) The Thrill of Crossing the Bhagirathi River: Crossing the Bhagirathi River on a humble trolley is a standout experience we always hear our trekkers talk about. . On your way from Bhojwasa to Gaumukh, a trolley carries you over the gurgling river. You can hear the water rushing below you. The trolley sways. It's pulled by hand, and when the pullers tire, it stops — right there, mid-air, with the river flowing beneath you. You know it's a controlled environment. You know it's safe. Yet, the thrill you feel in the moment is simply unmatched.
3) Tapovan and its Spectacular Views: Reaching Tapovan is like entering a hidden world. While the terrain is a mix of boulders and grass, it’s the views that leave you rooted to the spot. Mt Shivling, often called the most beautiful mountain in India, stands before you in all its elegance, from base to summit. On the opposite side, the Bhagirathi sisters rise together as a grand massif, their immense presence dominating the landscape. These views are rare and unmatched, even in the Himalayas.
4) Unforgettable Sunrises and Sunsets: Few places can match the sheer drama of the sunrises and sunsets on this trek. Mt Shivling turns golden as the first rays of sunlight strike its summit, and in the evening, the Bhagirathi sisters glow in warm, fiery hues. Watching these daily spectacles stirs deep emotions and creates memories that last a lifetime.
The Gaumukh Tapovan Trek is one of the most rewarding journeys that you can undertake in the Indian Himalayas. It is a trail that perfectly blends adventure and breathtaking mountain vistas with a spiritual connection to nature.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Gaumukh Tapovan : Take on the adventure of trekking to Gaumukh Tapovan, A Journey to the source of River Ganga, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Homestay at Gangotri: One of the highest pilgrimage sites of India. It is a very small town with a small population but a very culturally significant. You'll stay at local homestays and experience the culture of the town first-hand.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinenr at Gangotri on Day 1 to dinner at Gangotri on Day 6 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1550 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3100 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 4,000 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Buffer day on the trek
We have kept a buffer day on the trek to account for any weather-related delay. If this is utilised, you will need to pay Rs 2,500 + 5% GST. This amount is to be handed over to your trek leader.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Gaumukh Tapovan - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Gaumukh Tapovan trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Guide
Study this map to get a visual cue of the Gaumukh Tapovan trek.
Day 1
Reach Gangotri from Dehradun
Drive distance: 242 km | Drive Duration: 8 hours
Transport will be arranged from , Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun at 5.00 am. The transport cost is ₹1550 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3100 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Gangotri (10,050 ft) to Chirbasa (11,630 ft)
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours
Moderate. Initial 300 m steep ascent followed by a very gradual ascent all the way.
Day 3
Chirbasa (11,630 ft) to Bhojbasa (12,415 ft)
Trek Distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours
Moderate. Initial 100 m ascent to get back on the trail. Very gradual ascent all the way to Bhojbasa
Day 4
Bhojbasa (12,415 ft) to Tapovan (14,203 ft)
Trek Distance: 6 km | Trek Duration: 9 hours
Difficult. Gradual ascent for 2.5 hours. 2 hours glacier walk followed by 1 hour of moderate ascent. Final 1.5 hours is a steep ascent.
Day 5
Tapovan (14,203 ft) to Bhojbasa (12,415 ft)
Trek Distance: 6 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours
Moderate Difficult. Level trail to Chirbasa.
Day 6
Bhojbasa (12,415 ft) to Gangotri (10,050 ft)
Trek Distance: 14 km | Trek Duration: 8 hours
Tricky descent over bouldery section
Day 7
Drive from Gangotri to Dehradun
Drive distance: 242 km | Drive Duration: 8 hours
The transport cost is ₹1550 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3100 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Drop Location and Time: Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun at 8.00 pm
Day 8
Buffer Day
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 2,500 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day.
This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete Trek Guide with Photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Day 8
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Reach Gangotri
Drive Duration: 10-12 hours drive from Dehradun to Gangotri
Altutide: 10,050 ft
Moderate ascent . Well-marked road followed by forest trails.
The trek begins at Gangotri the following morning. Gangotri is known as the source of the river Ganga (the actual source being Gaumukh), which is known as Bhagirathi here.
It is said that King Bhagirath prayed to Lord Shiva for the salvation of the souls of his 60,000 sons. Shiva obliged and requested Goddess Ganga to release her water, which purified the ashes of Bhagirath’s sons. This mythological story elevated the status of the River Ganga as a means to purify one’s soul.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
The trek begins at Gangotri the following morning. Gangotri is known as the source of the river Ganga (the actual source being Gaumukh), which is known as Bhagirathi here.
It is said that King Bhagirath prayed to Lord Shiva for the salvation of the souls of his 60,000 sons. Shiva obliged and requested Goddess Ganga to release her water, which purified the ashes of Bhagirath’s sons. This mythological story elevated the status of the River Ganga as a means to purify one’s soul.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Gangotri to Chirbasa
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek Distance: 10 km
Altitude gain: 10,050 ft to 11,630 ft
Moderate. Initial 300 m steep ascent followed by a very gradual ascent all the way.
Water Sources: Carry sufficient water from Gangotri. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way.
Start from Gangotri early in the morning.
The trail to Chirbasa goes through a Forest Check Post around 2 km from the Gangotri bus stand. A trail goes up from the bus stand towards the left side of the forest. The trail runs on the left side of the market area and one can take multiple trails from inside of the market to connect with the trail. Walk till you reach the Forest Check Post.
This may take around 15-30 minutes, depending on where you start from within Gangotri. From here, spot a striking white peak in the distance. This is Sudarshan Parbat (21,345 ft), looking stunning in the background. It lies in a cluster of many major peaks. After getting the permits checked, proceed on the trail that remains on the left side of the mountain ridge throughout the day. The Bhagirathi River remains below, always to your right. There are a few isolated glaciers on the river that are melting rapidly.
Read More
Start from Gangotri early in the morning.
The trail to Chirbasa goes through a Forest Check Post around 2 km from the Gangotri bus stand. A trail goes up from the bus stand towards the left side of the forest. The trail runs on the left side of the market area and one can take multiple trails from inside of the market to connect with the trail. Walk till you reach the Forest Check Post.
This may take around 15-30 minutes, depending on where you start from within Gangotri. From here, spot a striking white peak in the distance. This is Sudarshan Parbat (21,345 ft), looking stunning in the background. It lies in a cluster of many major peaks. After getting the permits checked, proceed on the trail that remains on the left side of the mountain ridge throughout the day. The Bhagirathi River remains below, always to your right. There are a few isolated glaciers on the river that are melting rapidly.
In around 15 minutes, you will come across the first of many waterfalls and streams that you will see today. The trail mostly has gradual inclines and level walks. Trek for another 20-30 minutes and you will see another stream gushing below a makeshift bridge. After crossing the bridge, the valley opens up and turns right. Feast your eyes on the several snow-capped mountain ranges on the right side of the valley. After 20 minutes, you will see the third major stream on your path. Sudarshan Parbat is now no longer visible. The trail remains consistent for another 45 minutes. Now, the path swirls further towards your right as you cross the third ridge, giving way to a breathtaking view of the valley. Bask in a healthy presence of blue pine and silver birch trees around you.
A consistent hike of 45 minutes will bring you to a boulder zone over one of the snouts coming from Sudarshan Parbat. Cross the boulders and hike up for about 10 minutes to reach a series of dhabas .
Chirbasa is another 15 minutes away under forest cover. A special mention should be given to Himalayan Environmental Trust, who, along with the Forest Department, has been able to successfully implement an afforestation project in this area. As you pass the check post of the Forest Department, take the trail down on your right to reach the camping ground of Chirbasa. Look for a GMVN hut on level ground next to Bhagirathi River. Camp here for the night.
Bhagirathi River is to the right of the Chirbasa campsite. The place gets its name from the Chir trees that surround it. You get clear views of the Bhagirathi peaks from Chirbasa. Also visible in the distance is the mouth of the Gaumukh glacier.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Chirbasa to Bhojbasa
Trek Duration: 3 hours | Trek Distance: 5 km
Altitude gain: 11,630 ft to 12,415 ft (3,789 m)
Moderate . Initial 100 m ascent to get back on the trail. Very gradual ascent to Bhojbasa
Water Sources: None. Carry 2 litres of water
The valley widens from Chirbasa and offers views of snow-clad peaks. Take the trail from behind the GMVN hut. The trail connects with the Gaumukh trail, which extends from the forest check post. This section will take 5 to 10 minutes. Once connected with the primary trail, you will be able to see the Chirbasa campsite below. There is a minor landslide-prone section within 10 minutes from this point. After this section, the terrain is broken into certain sections but is manageable. Look for the first ridge ahead towards your left in the distance. It takes around 30-45 minutes to reach this ridge and cross the bend.
As you trudge through the silent hills, the Bhagirathi peak looms closer into view. After 20 minutes of gradual ascent, look for a stream to your left. Another 45 minutes of a similar gradient will have you reach another landslide-prone area. This area has a boulder gradient and a stream crossing your path. Climb up for another five minutes to traverse the second ridge/bend. There are 8-9 landslide-prone bends from here. It takes 20 to 30 minutes to traverse this section. Keep an eye for falling rocks and avoid resting. Move swiftly. After crossing this section, you will see a bridge with a stream flowing below. Bhojbasa, the widest point in the valley, is only 1.5 km from this point.
The trek to Bhojbasa is a level walk and very scenic. Around 300 m above Bhojbasa, you get a vantage point. The entire valley ahead of Bhojbasa is visible from here. This is a very beautiful sight. Also visible is a part of the Gaumukh glacier.
Read More
The valley widens from Chirbasa and offers views of snow-clad peaks. Take the trail from behind the GMVN hut. The trail connects with the Gaumukh trail, which extends from the forest check post. This section will take 5 to 10 minutes. Once connected with the primary trail, you will be able to see the Chirbasa campsite below. There is a minor landslide-prone section within 10 minutes from this point. After this section, the terrain is broken into certain sections but is manageable. Look for the first ridge ahead towards your left in the distance. It takes around 30-45 minutes to reach this ridge and cross the bend.
As you trudge through the silent hills, the Bhagirathi peak looms closer into view. After 20 minutes of gradual ascent, look for a stream to your left. Another 45 minutes of a similar gradient will have you reach another landslide-prone area. This area has a boulder gradient and a stream crossing your path. Climb up for another five minutes to traverse the second ridge/bend. There are 8-9 landslide-prone bends from here. It takes 20 to 30 minutes to traverse this section. Keep an eye for falling rocks and avoid resting. Move swiftly. After crossing this section, you will see a bridge with a stream flowing below. Bhojbasa, the widest point in the valley, is only 1.5 km from this point.
The trek to Bhojbasa is a level walk and very scenic. Around 300 m above Bhojbasa, you get a vantage point. The entire valley ahead of Bhojbasa is visible from here. This is a very beautiful sight. Also visible is a part of the Gaumukh glacier.
You get the first view of Mt Shivling at Bhojbasa. This is an open campsite – you’re far above the tree line now. The Bhagirathi River flows right beside the campsite.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Bhojbasa to Tapovan
Trek Duration: 9 hours | Trek Distance: 6km
Altitude gain: 12,415 ft to 14,203 ft
Difficult. Gradual ascent for 2.5 hours. 2 hours glacier walk followed by 1 hour of moderate ascent. The final 1.5 hours is a steep ascent.
Water Sources: Carry 2 litres of water. Refill water bottles at Gaumukh.
Reach Gaumukh on the same trail as Day 4.
Start early in the morning from the campsite and walk for about half a kilometre. You will reach the Bhagirathi River. Here, the technical team along with the trek leader will help you on the Trolley or Tyrolean traverse.
Tyrolean traverse in short Tyrol or TT is a method of crossing rivers in the mountains where bridges are not in place. It is done from a natural anchor (Boulder or a tree) to another anchor through a rope, pulley, and seat harness attached to the person. It is a safe and efficient way of crossing a river. However, setting up Tyrolean traverse is an advanced technique and should be done only by trained professionals.
Read More
Reach Gaumukh on the same trail as Day 4.
Start early in the morning from the campsite and walk for about half a kilometre. You will reach the Bhagirathi River. Here, the technical team along with the trek leader will help you on the Trolley or Tyrolean traverse.
Tyrolean traverse in short Tyrol or TT is a method of crossing rivers in the mountains where bridges are not in place. It is done from a natural anchor (Boulder or a tree) to another anchor through a rope, pulley, and seat harness attached to the person. It is a safe and efficient way of crossing a river. However, setting up Tyrolean traverse is an advanced technique and should be done only by trained professionals.
In Gaumukh Tapovan trek, on Tapovan day, after a 20 minutes hike from Bhojbasa Campsite, we set up a Tyrolean traverse to cross the Bhagirathi river.
If you are trekking by yourself, there is also a trolley installed by forest officials. This should help you get across the river.
This will take approximately 1 hour for the entire batch to cross. After that, you start your trek. The walk is approximately 2 km, on a visible path, with rocks and stones on either side. After this begins a gradual ascent.
After this, you hit a rock face, which you will have to climb to get to Tapovan.
This climb is adjacent to Akash Ganga, which flows vertically down this rock face. Ensure this section is climbed before lunchtime to avoid potential rockfalls and an increase in the volume of water coming down Akash Ganga. The climb takes an hour to two, depending upon the conditions. The climb is a steep incline on loose gravel.
After about 100 metres into the climb, look for spots from where you can cross Akash Ganga. If the volume of water is high, then you need to take your shoes off and cross the stream. Otherwise, boulder hopping is also possible. Take a break after crossing the stream. You can have lunch here.
Tapovan is a steep climb from here. It will take you about 1.5 hours to reach. Look for a suitable camping spot and camp for the night.
The mountain views from the Tapovan campsite are astonishing. You can see Mt Shivling to the right. Meru is to the right of Shivling. On the left side of Shivling, a little behind is Sumeru. Further to the left, you see Bhagirathi peaks, Thenu and Sudarshan Parbat. If you walk to the ashram that is visible from the campsite, Shivling appears even closer.
Tapovan is a high-altitude alpine meadow below Mt. Shivling, which dominates the landscape. Tapovan is spread over 2 km in length. Although it’s vast level ground, not all the land is suitable for camping. The area close to Mt. Shivling is wet during early summer due to melting snow and glacial water. These grounds have been used by many sages to meditate over the centuries. Many such holy men are living permanently at Tapovan.
A 1.5 km trek from Tapovan to the adjoining peak that connects to Neelatal brings you to a vantage point from where you get great views of Meru. This takes about 2 hours to reach the campsite. From here, you can either walk on the ridge ahead to reach Neelatal or walk back on the same trail to Tapovan. Neelatal seldom has any water now. Manage your time such that you’re back at the campsite by 1:30 PM.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Tapovan to Bhojbasa
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek Distance: 6km
Altitude loss: 14,203 ft (4,328 m) to 12,415 ft (3789 m)
Moderate Difficult. Level trail to Chirbasa.
Water Sources: Carry 2 litres of water. You can refill your water bottles at streams along the trail.
From the campsite, begin your descent to Bhojbasa. Follow the same route that you climbed up. You will cross the same boulder section and a stream. Continue climbing down, and you will have a traverse section. Make sure to keep an eye out for falling rocks. Do not rest here.
Continue walking on the path. You will cross the landslide-prone area. Here, the Bhagirathi massif looms closer into view. Continue walking on the same path. From here on, keep a lookout for the trolley to cross the Bhagirath river.
Stay in tents for the night at the Bhojbasa campsite.
Read More
From the campsite, begin your descent to Bhojbasa. Follow the same route that you climbed up. You will cross the same boulder section and a stream. Continue climbing down, and you will have a traverse section. Make sure to keep an eye out for falling rocks. Do not rest here.
Continue walking on the path. You will cross the landslide-prone area. Here, the Bhagirathi massif looms closer into view. Continue walking on the same path. From here on, keep a lookout for the trolley to cross the Bhagirath river.
Stay in tents for the night at the Bhojbasa campsite.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Bhojbasa to Gangotri
Trek Duration: 8 hours | Trek Distance: 14 km
Altitude loss: 12,415 ft (3789 m) to 10,050 ft (3065 m)
Moderate.
Water Sources: Carry 2L of water. None from Bhojbasa to Chirbasa. You can refill your water bottles from streams on the way from Chirbasa to Gangotri.
Proceed from Bhojbasa on the same trail back to Gangotri.
The trek involves a gradual descent and a series of level walks, which can be done swiftly. It’s a very gradual descent, which takes far less time to cover than the ascent.
Though this is a gradual descent, keep in mind that it is still a 14 km trail, which might feel endless.
Read More
Proceed from Bhojbasa on the same trail back to Gangotri.
The trek involves a gradual descent and a series of level walks, which can be done swiftly. It’s a very gradual descent, which takes far less time to cover than the ascent.
Though this is a gradual descent, keep in mind that it is still a 14 km trail, which might feel endless.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Drive from Gangotri to Dehradun
Drive Duration: 8 hours | Drive Distance: 242 km
Drive back from Gangotri to Dehradun.
Cab cost per vehicle will be Rs 8500 (5-6 seater) and Rs 14,000 (10-12 trekkers). You will reach Dehradun between 6.00 pm and 7.00 pm.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Drive back from Gangotri to Dehradun.
Cab cost per vehicle will be Rs 8500 (5-6 seater) and Rs 14,000 (10-12 trekkers). You will reach Dehradun between 6.00 pm and 7.00 pm.
go to previous day Day 6 Day 8 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 8: Buffer Day
This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 2,500 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day
Read More
go to previous day Day 7
This depends completely on the weather conditions on the trek and the call will be taken by the trek leader.
If the buffer day is used, you have to pay us Rs. 2,500 per day (INR) +5% GST. The money will be collected by the Trek Leader only if we use the buffer day
go to previous day Day 7
How Difficult Is Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
What You Can Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate-Difficult
Suitable for experienced trekkers
You will cover a total of around 41 km in six trekking days during which you will gain approximately 4,153 ft (10,050 ft to 14,203 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. There are several difficult sections on this trek that require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
On the way to Chirbasa from Gangotri, you cross a large boulder. On one side, it drops directly into the river. Be extra careful even though there are guard rails, especially if it rains.
Between Chirbasa and Bhojbasa, the unstable "Kachha Dhaang" sections are prone to landslides.
After Bhojbasa, crossing the Bhagirathi River requires government-provided trolleys. Handle the pulley carefully to avoid injury.
The final ascent to Tapovan is along the lateral moraines of Gangotri glacier and is rockfall-prone.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on.
Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
In the Autumn season, the temperatures plummet below zero. Even without snowfall, strong winds can take a toll on you if you're not well-layered.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
Gangotri, situated 10,050 ft above sea-level, is our highest basecamp. This makes you susceptible to Acute Mountain Sickness (AMS).
The trek takes you over 14,000 ft over sea-level at Tapovan. At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The only exit point on the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek is Gangotri (basecamp). With only one exit point on the trail, evacuation in case of emergency becomes challenging on the Gaumukh Tapovan trek.
There is an SDRF camp and Forest Department Office at Bhojbasa. In case of emergency, they can be approached for help and rescue. Mules or horses can also be arranged to take you from Bhojbasa to Gangotri.
Ahead of Bhojbasa, evacuation from Tapovan is extremely difficult because of the terrain and the difficult sections that come into play.
Closest Hospital to the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek:
There is a Primary Health Care Center in Harsil, about 25 km from Gangotri However, it has very basic facilities. For better facilities, you need to approach the District Hospital in Uttarkashi, which is about 100 kms by road from Gangotri. However, for any advanced treatment, heading to Dehradun is the best option.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
Schedule Your Trek Dates Based on the Best Season
toggle accordion
Gaumukh Tapovan in Summer (mid-May to end-June)
Day Time Temperature: Between 15 °C to 20 °C | Night Time Temperature: At night, the temperature drops to almost 0 °C
Snow/Rain in Summer: You will find receding snow on the trail. Unpredictable precipitation.
Number of warm layers recommended in Summer: 3 warm layers
Summer is a popular time to do the Gaumukh Tapovan trek, especially for trekkers who are drawn to trekking in snow.
In early summers, you will find snow along the trail. This is also the time when you cross the Bhagirathi river over the natural snow bridges. The snow remains till Gaumukh and sometimes even beyond until the mid of May.
But by mid-summer (late May-early June), you will find the final traces of snow. But you’ll start noticing the sparse vegetation of the valley. The little vegetation that you find on the trail (most of which lies on the way to Chirbasa) starts turning green.
At this time, the melting snow adds to the swell of the Bhagirathi river that begins to flow with its full might. You’ll notice this at Suryakund itself in Gangotri.
The pre-monsoon rains in the valley only add to the force of the river.
As we approach July, the monsoons are in full swing. The constant downpours make sections of the trail ( see difficult sections ) prone to landslides and rockfalls. The trek becomes a risky proposition to undertake.
At Indiahikes, we wind up the summer season by the end of June.
| Note : The summer season is not just popular among trekkers, but also among pilgrims. It is the busiest season for the Chardham Yatra. Therefore expect a lot of pilgrims on the trail until Gaumukh. This flow of pilgrims heading to the Gaumukh glacier continues even in the monsoon months of July and August. The trail to Tapovan though is untenable in monsoons.
Gaumukh Tapovan in Autumn (mid-September to mid-October)
Daytime Temperature: Around 15 °C | Night Time Temperature: Tapovan temperatures can go as low as 3-5 °C below 0 °C
Snow/Rain: The weather is stable with clear skies. Low chances of precipitation.
Number of warm layers recommended in Autumn: 4-5 layers
The setting shifts as we move to autumn. This is the best season to do the Gaumukh Tapovan trek for excellent views of the entire valley.
Autumn also brings colours to the trail. The vegetation en route to Chirbasa turns into shades of yellows, browns and maroons. The Bhagirathi too turns a deeper shade of blue. Its flow is gentler compared to summers.
This happens because the drop in temperatures freezes the glaciers and streams, constricting the flow of water. All of this adds a little bit of colour to the otherwise stark valley.
Compared to summer, the autumn season on the Gaumukh Tapovan trail is shorter. It’s barely 4-5 weeks long. There’s a reason why this season wraps up so quickly.
The region experiences pre-winter snows sometime in October. More so at higher elevation campsites like Bhojbasa and above. So, after mid-October, the weather makes trekking untenable. It is time to wind up the season again until the summer next year.
Tapovan is generally not as popular with pilgrims and you’ll notice lesser crowds in autumn.
Packing List
Things To Take
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Plan Your Travel for the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Gangotri is the base camp for the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek.
Gangotri , a bustling temple town situated more than 10,000 ft above sea level, is one of the four sites in the Char Dham pilgrimage of Uttarakhand. It is around 250 km from Dehradun and takes 9-10 hours by road.
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5 am from the Asli Pappu Da Dhaba, Dehradun .
Arrive in Dehradun by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Dehradun by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Dehradun:
How to reach Dehradun? Dehradun has its own airport and is well-connected to all major cities. The easiest way to reach Dehradun is to:
Fly directly to the Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun.
Fly to Delhi and then take an overnight bus to Dehradun .
How to reach Dehradun by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Dehradun.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, if you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000, then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Dehradun by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains running between Delhi and Dehradun.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Dehradun by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Dehradun on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you the much-needed rest before you start the long drive to Raithal the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Dehradun:
You can retrace the same journey back from Dehradun to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Gangotri on your own:
There are no direct buses from Dehradun to Gangotri. You first need to reach Uttarkashi and then take a shared jeep to Gangotri.
Direct Bus from Dehradun to Uttarkashi and Shared Jeep to Gangotri
There is one direct bus from Dehradun to Uttarkashi which leaves at 5:30 AM.
You can book seats on this bus online through the UTC Pathik App . Please note that this bus departs from the Dehradun Hill Bus Stand and not from Dehradun ISBT
It reaches Uttarkashi around 11:30 AM.
From Uttarkashi Bus Stand, walk to the Taxi Stand.
The shared vehicles for Gangotri leave from Uttarkashi Taxi Stand from early in the morning till 12 noon. It takes around 2.5 hrs to reach Gangotri from Uttarkashi.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Are backpacks, raincoats, and other equipment available for rent on Gaumukh Tapovan trek? expand accordion
We do have ponchos, backpacks, shoes, and trekking poles available for rent. You can order them online here .
What is the best time to do Gaumukh Tapovan trek? expand accordion
May to July and September to October are the best months for the Gaumukh Tapovan trek.
What will the temperatures be like on Gaumukh Tapovan trek? expand accordion
The Gaumukh Tapovan trek can be done in two seasons- Summer and Autumn.
The summer season starts from Mid-May and extends till the end of June. Weather in the Himalayas is unpredictable during summer. Chances of rain or snowfall are quite frequent making temperatures pretty unstable during the trek. The daytime temperatures at Bhojbasa and further are pleasant around 15° C, but at night the temperature can drop close to 0 °C and campsites get chilly.
The autumn season starts from Mid-September to the end of October. However, it is a few degrees colder. But unlike summer, the weather is stable.
There is also a perceptible gap between daytime and nighttime temperatures in autumn. You’ll find the days are pleasant at around 15 °C. But the temperature quickly drops below zero after sundown. Temperatures can go as low as 3-5 °C below zero at night in Tapovan.
How Difficult is the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek? expand accordion
How Difficult Is The Gaumukh Tapovan Trek| Indiahikes| Tips To Prepare | Trek Talk With Vishnu Benne
Gaumukh Tapovan trek is a moderate-difficult trek. The Gaumukh Tapovan takes you to a height of 14,203 feet. By that sheer altitude itself, the trek goes into a moderate-difficult category.
Moreover, the trek has a very high starting altitude — with Gangotri being at 10,050 feet. This altitude poses a challenge when it comes to acclimatisation.
Aside from the altitude, the trek has several scree and boulder sections where the terrain requires you to be alert and nimble. These sections must trek only with the help of technical safety equipment and a competent technical safety team.
How fit do you need to be for Gaumukh Tapovan? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Gaumukh Tapovan requires a good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 32 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 25 km a week or 100 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement for you to safely complete the trek as well enjoy it
OR
Alternatively, cycle for at least 25 km in 60 minutes . Aim to cycle 125 km a week or 500 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
After you register, you will be sent a questionnaire about your trekking experience and medical history. Additionally, you must attach a screenshot of a 5 km run under 35 mins only to get approved for the trek.
High-altitude trekking experience of above 14,000 ft or at least moderate-difficult trek experience is a preferred requirement.
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Moderate-Difficult treks like the Gaumukh Tapovan trek, you’ll walk for about 8-12 km each day. Gradual to steep ascents and descents are common on all days. Expect to reach high altitudes of 15,000+ ft. There will also be technical sections (such as rockfall zones, near-vertical sections, glacier walks), which our technical teams will help you navigate.
If you are above the age of 58 years, your Experience Coordinator will need a detailed account of your health. If you have done a Himalayan trek in the past or they have an active fitness lifestyle (marathons/cycling expeditions), we’ll need to see your Treadmill Test and fitness proof (Fitness proof: 5 kms in 38 mins).
But if you do not have any experience, we strongly advice you to start with an easy-moderate trek.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek? expand accordion
When it comes to a mobile phone network and an internet connection, you’ll find a good network until Gangotri. Airtel, BSNL, and Jio are the mobile phone connections you will most likely get. However, once you leave Gangotri, the network is spotty or non-existent.
As for electricity, Gangotri is the last point with electricity. Unlike some other remote areas, the power supply is almost uninterrupted.
At the Indiahikes base camp in Gangotri, all the rooms are equipped with plug points for trekkers to charge their electronic devices.
However, once you leave the base camp, there is no electricity. We suggest you bring additional batteries for your cameras and a power bank with more than 10,000 mAh to last you the entire trek.
Note: Power from your batteries will drain faster in cold temperatures. Our tip is to put the battery/power bank in a small pouch and keep it inside your sleeping bag to keep them warm during the night.
How many months in advance should I book Gaumukh Tapovan? expand accordion
Gaumukh Tapovan is a trek with a very short window. It is only trekkable in the summer (May-June) and autumn (Mid-Sep to Mid-Oct), a total of hardly three months. Slots for this trek get filled months before the season. It's ideal for you to book this trek 3 to 4 months in advance.
How long is the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek? expand accordion
Gaumukh Trek covers 46 km trek over 6 days (8 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 10,050 ft in Gangotri all the way to Tapovan at 14,203 ft.
Where is the nearest ATM? expand accordion
Uttarkashi is the last town en route to Gangotri where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Uttarkashi. However, cash does run out quickly at the Uttarkashi ATMs. Hence, Dehradun is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
How many trekkers are in this group? expand accordion
On the Gaumukh Tapovan trek, Indiahikes usually take 23 trekkers in total.
Can I keep extra luggage at the base camp? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility at the base camp (Gangotri), where you can leave your excess luggage behind. You can collect it once you are back at the base camp.
Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage. (The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Will there be snow on this trek? expand accordion
In early summers, you will find snow along the trail. This is also the time when you cross the Bhagirathi river over the natural snow bridges. The snow remains till Gaumukh and sometimes even beyond until the mid of May.
By mid-summer (late May-early June), you will find the final traces of snow. But you’ll start noticing the sparse vegetation of the valley. The little vegetation that you find on the trail (most of which lies on the way to Chirbasa) starts turning green.
Best time to do the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek | Indiahikes | Trek Talk With Vishnu Benne
Is offloading available for the Gaumukh Tapovan trek? expand accordion
Having more footprints through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. Keeping this and the spirit of trekking in mind, there will be no offloading available on this trek. Unless it is due to a medical issue. The cost of offloading your backpack is Rs 4,000 for the entire trek pre-tax.
Check out ways to make carrying your backup easier
I am a foreign national. Will I have to pay any extra charges to go on this trek? expand accordion
Yes, you do. The state tourism department charges slightly higher fees for foreign trekkers to issue permits for this trek. You need to carry an extra amount of Rs 1,000. Additionally carry 4-5 copies of your passport along with your VISA.
How to Get Fit for the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 32 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Gaumukh Tapovan Trek
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Running)
(6-Week Fitness Plan: Walking)
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs consistently.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to upload?
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.