Nag Tibba Trek 2026 | The Best Beginner Weekend Summit Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Nag Tibba Weekend Trek
Mussoorie's own weekend summit climb
Need help with planning your winter trek? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
If you are planning for a Winter Trek, our expert team of Trek Advisors can help you choose the right one. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Will I get to see snow in this trek?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Mussoorie's own weekend summit climb
We all know summit climbs are incredibly rewarding in a trek. This is why we have trekkers flocking to treks like Kedarkantha or Deoriatal-Chandrashila. On a trail like Nag Tibba, you get to experience the thrill of a summit climb in just a weekend!
Resting at 9915 ft, the summit of this trek is the highest in the Nag Tibba range of the Garhwal Himalayas . From here, you see a 100-degree view of snow-capped Himalayan ranges such as Swargarohini, Bandarpoonch, Kala Nag, Srikanth, and Gangotri. You also see Kedarnath peak in the north, Doon valley, and the snowy peaks of Changabang. With views like this and a climb to make you earn them, this weekend trek may be one of the best.
play video
As you go up one side of the mountain and come down from another side, you also experience a variety of landscapes. This trek takes you through dense forests, clearings, and ridge walks. All within two days!
Read more
expand overview
As you go up one side of the mountain and come down from another side, you also experience a variety of landscapes. This trek takes you through dense forests, clearings, and ridge walks. All within two days!
This relatively unknown trail near Mussoorie is a good fit for trekkers living in Delhi and the National Capital Region who want to have an adventure over the weekend. For beginners, this trek is great as an introductory trek to the world of trekking.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Nag Tibba : Trek to Nag Tibba, a thrilling summit climb in Mussourie, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from lunch on Day 1 to Lunch on Day 2 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost of transfer from Dehradun to Pantwari is Rs. 1100 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (Rs. 2200 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge.
Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Nag Tibba - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Nag Tibba trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Day 1
Reach Panthwari from Dehradun, drive to Goat Village and trek to Khatian
Drive Distance (Dehradun to Panthwari): 100 km | Drive Duration: 4-5 hours | 1st Pick up point: Live Free Hostel, Dehradun | Drive Distance (Panthwari to Goat Village): 10 km | Drive Duration: 1 hour
Trek Distance: 2.5 km | Trek Duration: 2-3 hours | Altitude gain: 4652 ft to 7506 ft
Transport to Panthwari will be arranged at 6.30 AM from Live Free Hostel, Dehradun
The cost is Rs.1100/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
At Panthwari, meet the Indiahikes Team, freshen up and drop your cloak-room items if you are off-loading. Get trek ready and hop onto the vehicle for a 10 km off-road drive to the trailhead at Goat Village. Start your trek to Khaitan from there.
Please Note: You do not need to pay any extra amount for your transfer from Panthwari to Goat Village.
From Goat Village, navigate an Easy-Moderate climb to Khaitan. It is a gradual ascent along a stone trail, laid by the forest department. This trail has long patches of loose stones.
Day 2
Trek from Khatian to Nag Tibba Top via Base. Descend to Goat Village and Drive down to Dehradun via Panthwari.
Trek Distance: 9.3 km | Trek Duration: 4-5 hours | Altitude gain and loss: 7506 ft to 9915 ft to 4652 ft | Drop-off point: Live Free Hostel, Dehradun | Drop-off time to Dehradun: 10 pm
Today is a Moderate day with a gradual ascent to Nag Tibba base followed by a steep climb to the summit. From the summit, descend back to Goat Village and drive back to Panthwari.
At Panthwari, freshen up, collect your cloakroom items and hop on to an Indiahikes vehicle for the drive back to Dehradun.
Transport from Panthwari to Live Free Hostel, Dehradun will be arranged. The cost is Rs.1100/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
IMPORTANT POINTS
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Previous
Next
Day 1: Transfer from Dehradun to Panthwari. Drive to Goat Village. Trek to Khatian
Drive Distance (Dehradun to Panthwari): 100 km | Drive Duration: 4-5 hours
Drive Distance (Panthwari to Goat Village): 10 km | Drive Duration: 1 hour
Trek Distance: 2.5 km | Trek Duration: 2-3 hours
Altitude gain: 4652 ft to 7506 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Gradual ascent along a stone trail laid by the forest department. The trail has long patches of loose stones.
Highlights: Watch out for the drive from Mussoorie to Panthwari. The village has a beautiful setting with wheat fields. The trek builds up once you hit the forest check post.
The four-hour road journey (100 km) from Live Free Hostel, Dehradun to Panthwari village takes you via Mussoorie, Kempty falls, over Yamuna Bridge, and up to Nainbagh on the road to Purola. From Nainbagh's main market, take a road going up on the right side (also known as Nag Tibba road). From here, after a 12 km drive, you reach Panthwari village where you meet the Indiahikes team.
Transport to Panthwari will be arranged at 6.30 AM from Live Free Hostel, Dehradun . The cost is Rs.1100/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Freshen up at the Indiahikes basecamp in Panthwari, drop your cloakroom items, and hop onto a vehicle for a 10 km offroad drive to Goat Village.
There are three routes that you could take to go to Nag Tibba. This one via Goat Village is the shortest, with a total trail distance of about 6 km from Goat Village to the Nag Tibba Summit. However, you will not go all the way to the summit today but stop at Khatian, 2.5 km from Panthwari.
Read More
Day 2 go to next day
The four-hour road journey (100 km) from Live Free Hostel, Dehradun to Panthwari village takes you via Mussoorie, Kempty falls, over Yamuna Bridge, and up to Nainbagh on the road to Purola. From Nainbagh's main market, take a road going up on the right side (also known as Nag Tibba road). From here, after a 12 km drive, you reach Panthwari village where you meet the Indiahikes team.
Transport to Panthwari will be arranged at 6.30 AM from Live Free Hostel, Dehradun . The cost is Rs.1100/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Freshen up at the Indiahikes basecamp in Panthwari, drop your cloakroom items, and hop onto a vehicle for a 10 km offroad drive to Goat Village.
There are three routes that you could take to go to Nag Tibba. This one via Goat Village is the shortest, with a total trail distance of about 6 km from Goat Village to the Nag Tibba Summit. However, you will not go all the way to the summit today but stop at Khatian, 2.5 km from Panthwari.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Trek from Khatian to Nag Tibba Top. Descend to Goat Village. Drive to Pantwari via Dehradun.
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 9.3 km
Altitude gain and loss: 7506 ft to 9,915 ft to 4652 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. An hour’s gradual ascent to Nag Tibba base with a section followed by a steep climb to the summit.
Highlights: The summit climb brings a sense of thrill when you trek through the forest section. From the shrine, the climb gets difficult. On the left-hand slope from the top, one can get a terrific view of the Himalayan ranges.
Rise early to get a head start as it is going to be a long day with a lot of walking to do. From Khatian, locate a trail towards the right going straight into the forest. Most of the trail goes through a thickly forested area. The trails from here are well defined. However, during January and February snow makes it difficult to identify the trail.
The landmarks on this 2 km trail to reach Nag Tibba Base are the two small open patches of land which you pass 20 minutes and 35 minutes from Khaitan. The estimated time it takes to reach Nag Tibba Base is around 45 minutes to 1 hour. The route is mostly a gradual walk with a small section of steep ascent for 10 minutes in between. Nag Tibba Base is a large clearing with a temple dedicated to the Serpent God.
You get a view of the Garhwal peaks through the forest. In winter, you will encounter a lot of snow here. The last 1 km is a very steep incline going into a forest with hardly any sunlight. This prevents the snow from melting. An able guide who knows the trail can come in handy in such conditions. There are 4 steep climbs while trekking in the forest.
Read More
Rise early to get a head start as it is going to be a long day with a lot of walking to do. From Khatian, locate a trail towards the right going straight into the forest. Most of the trail goes through a thickly forested area. The trails from here are well defined. However, during January and February snow makes it difficult to identify the trail.
The landmarks on this 2 km trail to reach Nag Tibba Base are the two small open patches of land which you pass 20 minutes and 35 minutes from Khaitan. The estimated time it takes to reach Nag Tibba Base is around 45 minutes to 1 hour. The route is mostly a gradual walk with a small section of steep ascent for 10 minutes in between. Nag Tibba Base is a large clearing with a temple dedicated to the Serpent God.
You get a view of the Garhwal peaks through the forest. In winter, you will encounter a lot of snow here. The last 1 km is a very steep incline going into a forest with hardly any sunlight. This prevents the snow from melting. An able guide who knows the trail can come in handy in such conditions. There are 4 steep climbs while trekking in the forest.
The snow makes the climb more challenging. It can take anywhere between 1 to 1 hour and 15 minutes to reach the summit. The summit is straight up and does not require you to go left or right. As you reach the top, you will see the trail re-appear and curve towards a ridge on the left. Walk for a minute till you see an open patch of land sloping downwards on the other side of the mountain.
Look for a flag on the highest point called Nag Tibba “Jhandi” or summit. Looking down towards the other side of the ridge you will see the route from Deolsari or Devalsari village.
On the left-hand slope from the summit, one can get a terrific view of the Himalayan ranges of Swargrohini, Bandarpoonch, Kala Nag, Srikanta, and Gangotri. The whole section looks beautifully carpeted in snow, making it a true winter weekend trek.
After spending some time at the summit, begin your descent. Retrace your way to Nag Tibba Base and then to Goat Village.
From Goat Village, drive down to Panthwari village, freshen up, collect your cloakroom items and hop on to an Indiahikes vehicle for the drive back to Dehradun.
Transport from Panthwari to Live Free Hostel, Dehradun will be arranged. The cost is Rs.1100/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
go to previous day Day 1
How Difficult Is Nag Tibba Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 14.5 km in two trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,263 ft (4,652 ft to 9,915 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents. But, they are mostly gradual and steady, except the summit climb on Day 4.
The Terrain:
The summit climb on Day 2 brings a sense of thrill when you trek through the forest section.
The trails at Nag Tibba are well defined. You still need to walk on the right trail. There will be an instance during your trek that will have 3 trails- One leading to the summit and the other 2 leading to different settlements. You need a guide to take you on a right track
From the shrine, the climb to the summit is challenging.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
There is a rapid altitude gain (4,652 ft to 9,915 ft) over a very short span of time (2 days). This makes you as prone to Acute Mountain Sickness as any other longer Himalayan trek.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits: .
On the Nag Tibba trek, your best bet is to descend to Panthwari if you have not trekked far.
If you are deep into the trek, after Day2, your best option is to descend to Bhatwadi.
Closest Hospital to the Nag Tibba Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is at Panthwari and Bhatwadi. If you need serious medical attention, head to Dehradun or Mussoorie– a 3 hr drive from Panthwari– for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Nag Tibba Trek
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
Nag Tibba in Autumn
The best time to do the trek would be in the post-monsoon months of September, October and November . Post monsoon, the sky is washed clean of all the haze.
It's a great time to do Nag Tibba as leaves turn brown making the trek look orange in colour. Witness these as you trek, inhaling the crisp, pine-scented autumn air.
Nag Tibba during the Winter
The next best time to do Nag Tibba is in Winter. It provides a great time for snow experience on the Nag Tibba trek in the month of December-January-February . The snow isn’t too thick to block the trail. It isn’t so thin that it disappears within a few days either.
It’s a wonderful time to camp and trek in the snow.
Nag Tibba in Spring
Spring in Nag Tibba starts by mid March and goes on till the end of April. The snows start to melt at the upper reaches while the grass begins to turn green throughout the trek. Tiny flowers make their heads out of the grass while rhododendrons bloom on the trees.
Nag Tibba during Summer
Summers bring out a green colour palette on this trek, one that you might not witness in any other season. You will witness tonnes of Coniferous and oak trees.
The forests and meadows look bright and sunny during May-June.
The trek is at its easiest and is a great getaway from the summer heat of the plains. It also makes for the perfect time to introduce children to the Himalayas during their summer vacations.
What To Pack For Your Nag Tibba Trek
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How To Reach Nag Tibba Basecamp
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
It is great to see you going on the Nag Tibba Trek, While it is a great trek to do, you need to get your travel plan worked out perfectly. Here is a step-by-step guide on what to do next. Use this guide and nothing else to plan your travel.
A quick view of your travel plan
Planning onward air/train booking
Planning return air/train booking
Planning your hotel bookings
How to reach Panthwari on your own
1. Here’s a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air ticket to Delhi or Dehradun. If Dehradun, proceed to Live Free Hostel, Dehradun for pickup. If Delhi, book a night train/bus to Dehradun.
Day 1: Dehradun to Panthwari drive. It is a 3-4 hour drive from Dehradun. Panthwari is the basecamp for your trek. We organise transport to Panthwari from Live Free Hostel, Dehradun . Our vehicles leave at 6:30 am sharp.
After freshening up at Panthwari, drive further from Panthwari to Goat Village and trek to Khatian (7,627 ft)
Day 2: Trek from Khatian (7,627 ft) to Nag Tibba Summit (9,915 ft) via Nag Tibba Base (8,530 ft). Descend to Goat Village and drive back to Dehradun via Panthwari.
Day 3: Book a return train ticket to Delhi from Dehradun (Nanda Devi or Mussoorie express). Or book a direct air ticket from Dehradun.
Note: While getting to Panthwari, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Dehradun (Day zero). On your return from the trek, you will get off at Dehradun. You reach Dehradun between 9:00 and 10:00 pm.
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets either for one day before Day 1 on the itinerary or book a flight/train as such where you will reach half an hour before the pick-up time on Day 1.
There are two options for your flight booking.
Option 1:
Fly directly to Dehradun.
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Dehradun. Most metros are directly connected to Dehradun. However, if the cost of the flight ticket to Dehradun is too high, book to Delhi and connect to Dehradun by train/bus.
The Dehradun airport is inconvenient when it comes to city connectivity.
Taxis are available from the airport (plenty). Prepaid taxis are available (look for the pre-paid taxi counter just out of the conveyor belt at the arrivals). You can also flag down a taxi (bargain a bit) with taxis outside the airport. Airport taxis are exorbitant. They usually charge Rs 1500.
Usually, most passengers take taxis from the airport. Try to coordinate your travel with co-passengers on the flight for your taxi ride to Dehradun.
Pro Tip : If you want to save real money walk 1.5 km to get to the Dehradun-Rishikesh national highway just outside the airport terminal complex. Take a bus to ISBT Dehradun which will charge you Rs. 40. From ISBT Dehradun take a shared auto (shared autos are called Vikrams ) to Dehradun Railway Station. Shared autos charge about Rs. 10.
Option 2:
Flying to Delhi.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. Make sure to book a flight that reaches Delhi by 8.00 pm. You must arrive in Delhi on Day Zero and not on Day 1.
| Note: If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
Next, book yourself on the Nanda Devi Express to Dehradun (Train No: 12401). It is a fully AC train that leaves at 23.45 hrs from Hazrat Nizamuddin and gets to Dehradun at 5.40 am.
| Note : Earlier the Nanda Devi express would depart from New Delhi railway station. From 26 Aug 2019, it leaves from Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station. The train now comes from Kota. So expect about 15 to 30 mins delay in arrival. The train number has changed too from 12206 to 12401.
For Metro train connectivity from Indira Gandhi International Airport, New Delhi, take a metro to Dhaula Kuan metro station. Get off and walk down to Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus metro station (there are convenient traveller belts over a skywalk). Take a metro to Hazrat Nizamuddin metro station over the pink line. It takes about 45 mins to an hour to get to Hazrat Nizamuddin over the metro.
At Dehradun, wait for Indiahikes pick up at 6.30 am. Contact your driver by 6.00 am. The number of your transport coordinator will be shared with you a week before your departure.
| Caution : Do not book on any other train except the Nanda Devi Express. The other option, Mussoorie express, is notorious for its delay. Your pickup vehicle may leave without you. If you do not get tickets on the Nanda Devi Express, take a bus from Delhi to Dehradun, but do not book on the Mussoorie express.
Bus
If in case you do not get a train ticket, there are regular Volvo AC buses from Delhi’s ISBT Kashmiri Gate to Dehradun. You also get Non-AC buses. Buses are frequent and not usually crowded. You can get a bus almost every half hour. Buses take 7-8 hours to get to Dehradun from Delhi. AC bus tickets cost about Rs 700.
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
If your onward flight departs from Delhi, then book flight tickets for Day 4.
Sometimes trekkers worry if they can book an early morning flight out of Delhi on Day 3. Yes, you can. But book flights that depart only after 8 am. Do not book any flight between 6.00 and 8 am. You may not reach Delhi in time.
How to get to Delhi on time for an early morning flight .
If your flight is early, say between 8.00 and 9.00 am, then there are two options.
Train : Take the Nanda Devi Express from Haridwar (12402) that leaves Haridwar slightly past midnight (00.17 hrs) to get to Hazrat Nizamuddin Railway Station at 4.50 in the morning. From Hazrat Nizamuddin, you get airport buses from outside the station as well as taxis. The Metro train is somewhat inconvenient from Hazrat Nizamuddin.
| Note : Earlier Nanda Devi express would arrive at the New Delhi railway station. From 26 August 2019, it has been extended up to Kota. It no longer goes to the New Delhi railway station. Instead, it goes to Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station . The train number has changed from 12206 to 12402.
Bus : The other option is to take a bus from Dehradun. It is about a 5½ – 6 hrs journey to Delhi. So if you take a bus that leaves around 9.00 pm, then expect to reach Delhi at around 3.00 am (ISBT Kashmiri Gate). A bus that leaves at 10 pm will reach Delhi around 4.00 am. AC Volvo buses are the fastest, so opt for them. Non AC buses can take up to 7-8 hrs for the journey.
From Kashmiri Gate ISBT you get Airport buses or taxis.
| Note : Metro trains in Delhi do not start before 5.00 am.
If you are taking a flight out of Dehradun
If you are taking a flight out of Dehradun then book yourself on Day 3 . Most metros are now well connected by Dehradun by flight.
4. Planning your hotel/stay
Hotel options at Dehradun
➤ Hotel Drona , which is a government property owned by the GMVN is decent. It is old, but a large and spacious property. It is about 1.5 km from Dehradun railway station. Rooms start at Rs 750.
Latest Update : Hotel Drona has been converted into a Covid Centre
Phone: +91-135-2746847.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/sjWSkGhe5LfAN8wDA
➤ MyRoom252 is a new backpacker facility in Dehradun. Modern, colourful and clean. Bunk beds start at Rs 300. Rooms are available too. It is not too far from the Dehradun Railway station. Shared autos (which are called Vikrams) can get you there.
Phone: 086308 81083.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/p5xkbMyUF4X5VHwx9
➤ Nomads House is another new backpacker hostel in Dehradun. The atmosphere is good. The place is neat and clean. Indiahikes trek leaders love Nomads House. It is about 10 mins from the Dehradun railway station. Bunk beds start at Rs 400, rooms start at Rs 800. Shared autos are easily available to get to Nomads House.
Phone: 9760596464
Location: https://g.page/NomadsHouse?share
5. What if you miss the Indiahikes pickup? Get to Panthwari on your own.
If you miss the Indiahikes pick up from Dehradun. Here is how you can get to Panthwari base camp on your own.
If you are at Dehradun, take an early bus to Nainbagh as quickly as you can. You will get Buses from Dehradun Railway Station. It will cost you about Rs. 140. It’s a 3-3.5 hours journey.
You also get shared taxis to Nainbagh which will cost you around Rs. 150- 230.
| Note: Taxi sometimes waits longer to get passengers, do not waste time here. Take a bus instead.
From Nainbagh take a shared cab to Panthwari(Basecamp). It will cost you about Rs. 50. It’s a 30-45 minutes journey.
| Note: Do not take Bus/Cab to Mussoorie . You might not get cabs to Panthwari from Mussoorie.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Nag Tibba Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
How to Get Fit for the Nag Tibba Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Nag Tibba Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Nag Tibba Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Can I change into trekking clothes before the trek starts? expand accordion
You can use the Dehradun railways station restrooms.
Do you have a locker facility or cloak room? expand accordion
There is cloakroom facility at our basecamp. But make sure you do not leave any valuables such as laptops and phones in the bag.
Is fitness screenshot mandatory for the trek? expand accordion
Yes, fitness screenshot and being well prepared for the trek are mandatory even for the Nag Tibba mandatory. Trekkers are expected to upload their fitness screenshots to their account/dashboard.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.