Sandakphu-Phalut Trek 2026 | Best views of Everest-Kanchenjunga Ranges Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Sandakphu Phalut Trek
Trek Alongside the Sleeping Buddha and 5 Highest Summits of the World
Have questions? Speak to our expert Trek Advisors
We have an expert team of Trek Advisors to help you choose the right trek. So if you have questions like, "Can I do this trek?" or "Who else is trekking?", please get in touch. Talk to our Trek Advisors
Highlights
Four of the World's Six Highest Peaks: No other trek in India brings you face to face with four of the World’s Six Highest Peaks: Kanchenjunga, Everest, Lhotse and Makalu. On the Sandakphu-Phalut Trek, you trek in their presence for days.
Trekking on the Singalila Ridge: From Sabargram, the trail follows the Singalila Ridge along the India–Nepal border for two unforgettable days. It’s here that the Kangchenjunga range aligns with the famous Sleeping Buddha formation.
Sunset Above a Sea of Clouds at Aahl: At Aahl, watch the sun sink below you into a sea of clouds. Above it, the Sleeping Buddha and Mount Everest group glow orange like islands floating in the sky.
Experience the Warm Indo-Nepal Culture: Stay in picturesque hamlets like Samanden and Gurdum, set amidst dense forests. Through warm hospitality at cosy tea-houses and local cuisine, get an intimate glimpse into the rich Indo–Nepal culture.
Trek Alongside the Sleeping Buddha and 5 Highest Summits of the World
The Sandakphu Phalut trek is unlike any other trek we run at Indiahikes. It follows a trail right along the India-Nepal border. You are constantly weaving in and out of Nepal. There is no other trek where you can experience this. And along the way, you stay in tea-houses, which offer an intimate look at the vibrant Nepali culture of the region. Trekkers come back raving about these cultural experiences.
But it’s the mountain views that have the greatest impact. On the Sandakphu Phalut Trek, you see not one or two but five of the World’s highest mountain peaks. It’s a humbling experience.
play video
From Sepi, you trek through a mosaic of villages, farmlands and tall pine forests to reach Samanden and then Molley. You get a glimpse of the revered Kanchenjunga massif on the way, but that’s about it. It’s only after you reach Sabargram that the mountain views open up fully. Right in front of you is the Kanchenjunga massif– the cultural icon of the region and the third-highest mountain peak in the world. It’s part of a group of peaks that line up to resemble a giant sleeping figure — the famous Sleeping Buddha. You see this alignment only from select vantage points. Trekkers from around the world come to Sandakphu-Phalut for a glimpse of this stunning sight. A sunrise in this setting, with clouds floating in and out of the valley, makes any trekker weak in the knees.
Read more
expand overview
From Sepi, you trek through a mosaic of villages, farmlands and tall pine forests to reach Samanden and then Molley. You get a glimpse of the revered Kanchenjunga massif on the way, but that’s about it. It’s only after you reach Sabargram that the mountain views open up fully. Right in front of you is the Kanchenjunga massif– the cultural icon of the region and the third-highest mountain peak in the world. It’s part of a group of peaks that line up to resemble a giant sleeping figure — the famous Sleeping Buddha. You see this alignment only from select vantage points. Trekkers from around the world come to Sandakphu-Phalut for a glimpse of this stunning sight. A sunrise in this setting, with clouds floating in and out of the valley, makes any trekker weak in the knees.
To the west of the Sleeping Buddha, the Everest group rises above the clouds. Mt. Everest, the tallest mountain in the world, sits between Lhotse, the fourth-highest peak and Makalu, the fifth-highest peak. To Lhotse’s west rises Cho Oyu, the sixth highest peak. That’s five of the world’s six highest peaks right in front of you.
While Everest, Kanchenjunga and Makalu get most of the attention, we often forget about Lhotse. The view is so captivating, you almost overlook other legendary peaks of Nepal like Cho Oyu and the Chamlang massif — each iconic in its own right. As long as you trek on the Singalila Ridge, from Phalut to Aahl and onwards to Sandakphu, these mountains walk with you.
The Sunsets from Aahl are our absolute favourite. Even our experienced Trek Leaders, who are in the mountains day in and day out, rate Aahl among the top spots to catch a sunset. Witnessing the sun set into a sea of clouds with all these magnificent mountains in the backdrop is simply breathtaking.
But Sandakphu-Phalut is also so much more. The trek takes you into the heart of Singalila National Park. From pines, oaks and firs to bamboo groves and rhododendrons– the variety of forests you witness on this trek is mind-boggling. In spring, the rhodos burst into colour — pink, red, scarlet, even white. If you're lucky, you might even spot a red panda or hear stories of black bears and clouded leopards.
Adding to the trek’s charm are villages like Samanden and Gurdum, placed quietly amidst dense forests. These picture-perfect settlements feel like they’re straight out of the European Alps — quiet, beautiful, and welcoming. And the local food? Spicy dalle chillies, bamboo shoot pickles, churpi — every step is a glimpse into the unique culture of the region.
But it is not a very easy trek. On the Sandakphu-Phalut Trek, you cover nearly 70 km over 6 days of moderate trekking. But the rewards are truly exceptional. You get up close to the Sleeping Buddha, witness breathtaking views of the world’s highest mountains, and experience some of the most stunning sunrises and sunsets in the Himalayas. And in the middle of all this, you’re standing at Sandakphu — the highest point in West Bengal — without even realising it.
With all these incredible facets, there’s no other trek in our books that is quite like the Sandakphu experience.
5 Things We Love About the Sandakphu Phalut Trek
1) The Sleeping Buddha
The Kanchenjunga cluster is something you can see right from the main Darjeeling town. It fills you with anticipation of seeing this massif up close on the trail. And when you arrive at Sabargram, you get your first unobstructed view of the Sleeping Buddha. The Sleeping Buddha is your companion for most days of the trek. It also gets closer and bigger each day. From Phalut, the cluster is so close that you feel like those mountains are a stone's throw away. No photograph does justice to how imposing it is.
2) Picturesque villages on the Trek
These villages are hidden gems on this trek. Samanden, with its European-style charm, is like a picture from a storybook. Aal, with its magical sunsets, feels otherworldly. The tea houses in these villages offer a warm, cosy experience. The mix of Nepali and Tibetan culture is evident everywhere. From the food to the hospitality, everything feels authentic and unique.
3) The Singalila Ridge
The moment you get to Sabargram, you arrive on the Singalila Ridge. Stretching from Phalut to Sandakphu, this is one of the classic ridge walks of our country. The Everest cluster and the Sleeping Buddha accompany you throughout the trek. From the ridge walk, you can see your path stretching out ahead of you for days. The views during sunrise and sunset are unparalleled. The sun rises and sets on a sea of clouds below you, creating magical moments you won’t find anywhere else. What most trekkers don’t know is that this ridge walk is longer than that of Phulara Ridge and Khopra Ridge!
4) The Forests of Singalila National Park
The bamboo and rhododendron forests of Singalila National Park are a treat. Walking under the tall bamboo stalks feels like entering a secret world. In spring, the blooming rhododendrons add bursts of red, pink, and white to the trail. The forests are alive with rare wildlife. If you’re lucky, you might even spot a red panda!
5) A Cultural Journey
This trek isn’t just about nature; it’s a cultural experience too. The trail crosses in and out of Nepal multiple times. Some of our campsites have sleeping tents in India and kitchen tents in Nepal! The tea house lets you immerse yourself in the local way of life. The food, like Nepali Thukpa and Bhukiya roti with fruit jam, is delicious and comforting. Don’t forget to take home Dalle Khursani chillies, among the spiciest in the world, or bamboo shoot pickles as souvenirs.
This trek is special in so many ways. Whether it’s the views, the culture, or the forests, every part of the journey has something magical to offer. At Indiahikes, Sandakphu Phalut is one of our most fulfilling treks — not just for trekkers, but for our mountain teams too.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Sandakphu-Phalut : Explore Sandakphu-Phalut, a trek to the Sleeping Buddha with views of three of the world’s highest peaks, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Sepi: Experience the rich Indo-Nepal culture over your stay at an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay at tea-houses on all days of your trek, except at Sabargram. At Sabargram, stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Important Note: Accommodation on the Sandakphu-Phalut trek is strictly gender-based. Special requests cannot be accommodated.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Sepi on Day 1 to lunch at Sepi on Day 7 are included.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base: You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost of transfer from Siliguri to Sepi is ₹1650 (additional 5% GST) per trekker one-way (₹3300 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs.2400 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration. Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Sandakphu Phalut - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Sandakphu - Phalut trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Download Itinerary
A route map of the Sandakphu - Phalut trek
Day 1
Drive from Siliguri to Sepi
Drive Distance: 125 km | Drive Duration: 6 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Bhakti Nagar Police Station, Siliguri | Pick up Time: 9.00 AM
Indiahikes will arrange a Sumo or Bolero that can accommodate 5-6 trekkers for your convenience. It will cost Rs 1650 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) from 2 Mile Check Post. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Sepi to Samanden
Trek Distance: 14 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Altitude Gain: 6,400 ft to 7,760 ft
Day 3
Trek from Samanden to Molley
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Altitude Gain: 7,760 ft to 11,220 ft
Day 4
Trek from Molley to Sabargram via Phalut
Trek Distance: 17.5 km | Trek Duration: 8-9 hrs | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,220 ft to 11,450 ft via 11,810 ft
Day 5
Trek from Sabargram to Aal
Trek Distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 7-8 hrs | Altitude Gain: 11,450 ft to 11,570 ft
Day 6
Trek from Aal to Gurdum via Sandakphu
Trek Distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 7 hrs | Altitude Gain and Loss: 11,570 ft to 7,395 ft via 11,930 ft
Day 7
Trek from Gurdum to Sepi. Drive from Sepi back to 2 Mile Check Post, Bhakti Nagar Police Station
Trek Distance: 4 km | Trek Duration: 3 hours | Altitude Loss: 7,395 ft to 6,400 ft
Drive Distance: 125 km | Drive Duration: 6 hours
Indiahikes will arrange a Sumo or Bolero that can accommodate 5-6 trekkers for your convenience from Sepi. It will cost Rs. 1650 (with an additional 5% tax) per trekker one way . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
You will reach Bhakti Nagar Police Station, Siliguri by 9.00 PM.
Please note:
1. If you would like a pickup from Darjeeling, please email your experience coordinator in advance.
2. The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending on weather conditions and your route. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
➤ Documents required: For Indian/Nepali trekkers, it is mandatory to carry 4 copies of their photo ID along with their original ID for entry at forest check posts on the trek. For non-Indian/non-Nepali trekkers, it is mandatory to carry 4-5 copies of their passports along with their Indian Visa. Along with this, the foreign trekkers will also have to carry Rs 1,500 in cash. These documents will be part of the Safety Check-in done by the trek leader when you arrive at the base camp.
➤ Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield .
Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
➤ Special Sandakphu Seniors’ Trek Itinerary: This is a separate Sandakphu–Phalut itinerary designed specifically for seniors . The route has been planned to ensure gradual ascent, comfortable travel time, adequate acclimatisation, and a rewarding experience.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with pictures
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Siliguri to Sepi
Drive Duration: 7 hours | Drive Distance: 130 km
Altitude: 6,400 ft
Highlights: The tea estates of Darjeeling. Hot momos and Thukpa for lunch. Pretty settlements along the way before reaching Sepi.
The drive from Siliguri to Sepi is what a typical ride in a hill station is like. The roads meander through the famous Darjeeling tea estates and small villages on the hills. Enjoy the views from your cab as you start to gain altitude.
Along the way, you will first come across Mirik, which is a popular tourist destination. Some distance beyond Mirik, stop around 1.00-2.00 PM for lunch. Try some authentic momos (dumplings) and Thukpa (noodle soup) here. You will find these dishes in almost every other eatery on this route. In a few teahouses, you are likely to find more traditional food like Gandruk, Churpi (Yak Cheese), Ningro and the famous chilli Dalle Khursani (Some of these might require prior intimation)
Post lunch the cab resumes on the uphill roads to Sepi. Along the way, you will pass through Sukhiapokhri, Dhotrey, and Rimbik. All of these are very beautiful settlements and blend into the surrounding tranquillity far from the hustle and bustle of city life.
Read More
The drive from Siliguri to Sepi is what a typical ride in a hill station is like. The roads meander through the famous Darjeeling tea estates and small villages on the hills. Enjoy the views from your cab as you start to gain altitude.
Along the way, you will first come across Mirik, which is a popular tourist destination. Some distance beyond Mirik, stop around 1.00-2.00 PM for lunch. Try some authentic momos (dumplings) and Thukpa (noodle soup) here. You will find these dishes in almost every other eatery on this route. In a few teahouses, you are likely to find more traditional food like Gandruk, Churpi (Yak Cheese), Ningro and the famous chilli Dalle Khursani (Some of these might require prior intimation)
Post lunch the cab resumes on the uphill roads to Sepi. Along the way, you will pass through Sukhiapokhri, Dhotrey, and Rimbik. All of these are very beautiful settlements and blend into the surrounding tranquillity far from the hustle and bustle of city life.
We believe that Sepi is our prettiest base camp! The place has abundant spots with tree groves, moss-covered rock faces, and ferns sprouting from every nook and corner.
Srikhola spring cuts through the village and human settlement bestows high and low on the landscape. It is a place worthy of putting up on tourism postcards. If this doesn’t add enough character to the place, according to the locals, some spots here are haunted! Talk about getting more than what you asked for.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Sepi to Samanden
Trek Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance: 14 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 1,360 ft (6,400 ft to 7,760 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate, mostly ascend with some steep sections. Descend after Ramam.
Highlights: Trek through a dense canopy of pine, oak and rhododendron forests.
Sepi is the base camp for this route and it’s just across the suspension bridge which happens to be a landmark and can be considered the starting point of the actual trek. After a good night’s rest here, it’s time to lace up your boots and head out on your journey.
With the prayer flags fluttering against the wind, walking on this suspension bridge itself is a very nice experience. Enjoy the small vibrations as you cross this bridge. Get to hear about the five elements of these prayer flags from your guide.
You warm-up for the day by walking to Ramam which is about 3.5 km away. There is a constructed road for the most part till Ramam and it meanders through several dwellings and step-cut fields on either side of the road. These however start to reduce as you proceed further on the route.
Read More
Sepi is the base camp for this route and it’s just across the suspension bridge which happens to be a landmark and can be considered the starting point of the actual trek. After a good night’s rest here, it’s time to lace up your boots and head out on your journey.
With the prayer flags fluttering against the wind, walking on this suspension bridge itself is a very nice experience. Enjoy the small vibrations as you cross this bridge. Get to hear about the five elements of these prayer flags from your guide.
You warm-up for the day by walking to Ramam which is about 3.5 km away. There is a constructed road for the most part till Ramam and it meanders through several dwellings and step-cut fields on either side of the road. These however start to reduce as you proceed further on the route.
It takes approximately 3 hours to reach Ramam and the road to Ramam is all ascent with some steep sections. It’s recommended to keep an easy pace and take rest as needed. It builds momentum and will allow your leg muscles to adapt to the terrain, exposed to the sun. Raman is a good stop point to rest a bit longer to replenish your energy. Now would be a good opportunity to level up your water canteens.
Your resume for Samanden after a short break. About 5-10 minutes later, the village huts are left behind and you are greeted with a small clearing surrounded by the thick pine forests foreboding the next section of the route. You also see tall Rhodos on this trail interspersed with tall pine trees. In Spring, these trees flower in lovely red that makes the entire trail colourful. You will also notice many orchids, ferns and mushrooms on the ground and on the trees.
Just across the clearing, you enter the forests and an emerald hue immediately surrounds you. For the next 6 km, you are completely traversing through a dense forest till you reach a bridge.
For the first 15 minutes, you take a steep ascent. Soon after, you reach a place where there are stone benches that are etched with the names of the locals who are no more. The noble thought behind this is that these locals who have passed away still get to serve the passers-by on the trail by providing them with a place to rest.
Just before you reach Samanden, take a right and you will enter one of the enchanted forests of this region. Once you hit the trail back to Samanden, you wlll find a stone at Sopedonga. This is a stone that is said to mark the boundary between Yetiland and Humanland after a war between humans and Yeti.
The trail eases out to a gradual climb 10 minutes later, and finally, you arrive at a vast clearing, having gradual undulating terrain dotted with farm fields and wooden huts, called Samanden. The beauty of this place is no less than the villages in the Swiss Alps.
The clearing is bordered by tall pine trees and the huts resemble Victorian architecture. One of these huts is your stay for the night where you are treated with very generous hospitality. Soak in the peace and simplicity of this place before you retire for the night wishing you owned a small hut in this quaint little village.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Samanden to Molley
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek Distance: 10 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 3,460 ft (7760 ft to 11,220 ft)
Difficulty: Difficult, steep ascent till Molley with very less flat terrain.
Highlights: A chance to spot a variety of flora and fauna, along with the rare Red Panda in the bamboo forest.
Today is going to be a challenging day as the entire route from Samanden to Molley is a steep climb. This is the day you exert the maximum and for the longest duration. However, the beauty of the trail lifts your spirits and motivates you to keep going. If there is magic in the forests, today is the day to experience it. Today, you will trek through three distinct groups of forests - each unique in its own way.
You climb almost 3,500 ft. In mountain terms, that is a substantial elevation gain. On top of that, you have no water sources on the route.
The entire route to Molley is actually through a dense forest. You will start the route in the section of the forest which is mostly of pine and oak trees. It starts with the Green Oak slowly giving way to Golden Oak as you keep climbing higher. Since these forests are comparatively at a lower altitude there is a high possibility of crossing your paths with some rare Himalayan wildlife.
Read More
Today is going to be a challenging day as the entire route from Samanden to Molley is a steep climb. This is the day you exert the maximum and for the longest duration. However, the beauty of the trail lifts your spirits and motivates you to keep going. If there is magic in the forests, today is the day to experience it. Today, you will trek through three distinct groups of forests - each unique in its own way.
You climb almost 3,500 ft. In mountain terms, that is a substantial elevation gain. On top of that, you have no water sources on the route.
The entire route to Molley is actually through a dense forest. You will start the route in the section of the forest which is mostly of pine and oak trees. It starts with the Green Oak slowly giving way to Golden Oak as you keep climbing higher. Since these forests are comparatively at a lower altitude there is a high possibility of crossing your paths with some rare Himalayan wildlife.
Asian Black Bears are known to dwell in these forests and several trekkers have even had close encounters with them. You can identify them with the distinct moon-shaped patch of white hair on their chest. They are generally not aggressive and leave your path if you are approaching them.
In the extremely rare chance you spot a mother bear with cubs, it is best to stay still and keep your distance or retreat slowly till she has gone it's way. There are other wild animals too in the region but as you go higher up, the chances of encountering them go down. Apart from mammals, there are several different species of birds as well that reside in these forests.
As you proceed further you also pass through dense bamboo forests as well. The bamboo groves flank you on either side of the route. In some parts, the bamboo forest gets so dense that you can hardly see further than a few meters into the jungle.
All you see are green sticks shooting out from the ground and arching over the route. It is in these very forests that, if you are lucky enough, you sight one of the shyest creatures from the endemic Himalayan fauna – The elusive and endangered Red Panda. They forage in these forests as their diet primarily consists of bamboo shoots. You have to walk with as little noise as possible to avoid scaring them away if they are in the vicinity and keep your eyes open. It is surreal to watch them in their natural habitat and one of the best experiences to carry back home.
While walking in the forest, you get to see mushrooms and fungi of many different colours. The trees are so tall with trunks so large, you’ll need 7-8 people just to cover their circumference!
After a few hours, the forest transitions to one full of Bamboo trees. Even here, the forest is so thick and dense with canopies, the sunlight barely touches the forest floor. A few undulating trails later, the Rhododendron belt begins.
After a long day of walking through the forest, you finally emerge from the forest. Make yourself comfortable in your warm tea house.
There’s a forest hut at Molley where you can find some snacks. You will find yourself reminiscing about the adventure you took during the day and the excitement you felt.
Once you reach Molley, walk 500 meters towards Sabargram to catch the alpenglow on the Kanchenjunga.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Molley to Sabargram via Phalut
Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Trek Distance: 17.5 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇗ 590 ft; ⇘ 360 ft (11,220 ft to 11,450 ft via 11,810 ft)
Difficulty: Easy, mostly level walks interspersed with a few ascents and descents.
Highlights: View of the Sleeping Buddha range
Today, you trek above the treeline and hit the ridge where if the weather is good, you will catch the views of the 4 tallest peaks of the world.
The trail from Molley to Phalut is a 9.5 km route via Sabargram that almost touches Nepal on your left. This will take you about 2.5 hours to cover. There are a series of gradual descents, steep ascents and level field walks, each coming in intervals of about 15 minutes. After this is half a km flat meadow walk followed by 1 km of a steep climb, which can be negotiated by taking shortcuts. Look out for the trekkers’ hut which the locals call Phalut Bungla , on your way. From this point, you will reach Phalut by climbing steadily for about half an hour.
The route offers one of the finest views of the Kanchenjunga massif and all the other peaks around it collectively known as the ‘Sleeping Buddha’. The peaks that you can see from the left are Kumbhakarna, Kanchenjunga and Simvo in the background. Below Kanchenjunga are Kokthang, Rathong, Frey, South Kabru, North Kabru, Kabru Forked, Goecha and the ridge of Pandim just ahead of Simvo. The depression between the ridgeline of Goecha and Pandim is the Goecha La , which is a popular and beautiful trek in Sikkim. It is amazing to witness such providence that these mountains, formed billions of years ago, and how they collectively appear to a person from distance, hold a near-perfect resemblance to the enlightened one himself – The Buddha in a resting position. Your first look at the ‘Sleeping Buddha’ is spellbinding and sends you into a spiritual trance. It gets imprinted on your psyche and remains there. The viewpoint is on the hillock to your left after reaching Phalut. Reach there early to get magnificent views of the entire panorama of mountains and peaks.
Read More
Today, you trek above the treeline and hit the ridge where if the weather is good, you will catch the views of the 4 tallest peaks of the world.
The trail from Molley to Phalut is a 9.5 km route via Sabargram that almost touches Nepal on your left. This will take you about 2.5 hours to cover. There are a series of gradual descents, steep ascents and level field walks, each coming in intervals of about 15 minutes. After this is half a km flat meadow walk followed by 1 km of a steep climb, which can be negotiated by taking shortcuts. Look out for the trekkers’ hut which the locals call Phalut Bungla , on your way. From this point, you will reach Phalut by climbing steadily for about half an hour.
The route offers one of the finest views of the Kanchenjunga massif and all the other peaks around it collectively known as the ‘Sleeping Buddha’. The peaks that you can see from the left are Kumbhakarna, Kanchenjunga and Simvo in the background. Below Kanchenjunga are Kokthang, Rathong, Frey, South Kabru, North Kabru, Kabru Forked, Goecha and the ridge of Pandim just ahead of Simvo. The depression between the ridgeline of Goecha and Pandim is the Goecha La , which is a popular and beautiful trek in Sikkim. It is amazing to witness such providence that these mountains, formed billions of years ago, and how they collectively appear to a person from distance, hold a near-perfect resemblance to the enlightened one himself – The Buddha in a resting position. Your first look at the ‘Sleeping Buddha’ is spellbinding and sends you into a spiritual trance. It gets imprinted on your psyche and remains there. The viewpoint is on the hillock to your left after reaching Phalut. Reach there early to get magnificent views of the entire panorama of mountains and peaks.
Phalut is a small grassland with minimal or no vegetation. There is only an SSB camp, a forest guest house and a GTA (Gorkhaland Territorial Administration) trekker’s hut. You may chance upon wild Yaks grazing around the hillock by the GTA hut. You can take a quick stroll up the hillock where you will be standing on the India-Nepal border marked by a boundary marker. Standing here you have a magnificent view of the hills and valleys on the Nepal side. Though this is a remote place, you get the closest views of the entire panorama. From here, the Sleeping Buddha range is at an aerie distance of only 38 km!
After spending an hour or hour and a half exploring the place, you now start to trail via the same route back to Sabargram to rest for the night at the campsite there.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Sabargram to Aal
Duration: 7-8 hours | Trek Distance: 13 km
Altitude Gain: ⇗ 120 ft (11,450 ft to 11,570 ft)
Difficulty: Moderate. Hillocks with ascents and descents of varying steepness.
Highlights: Ridge walk with the Kanchenjunga range accompanying you throughout.
The morning after you have rested at Sabargram, you wake up to a refreshing morning. Your legs may be fatigued from the stress of the previous two days.
However, do not miss the experience of the sunrise at Sabargram where you get to witness the sun rising above the floating clouds.
Once you get your breakfast and morning tea in, you will be good to go. The crisp and cold morning breeze fills up your lungs as you get ready for the journey today. It’s going to be a long day but not very stressful. The route starts at the same point as the last day but instead of going towards Phalut, you walk in the opposite direction. The route runs along the Singalila ridge on the actual India-Nepal border all through to the Sandakphu top. You come across several trodden paths crisscrossing the terrain. All look more or less the same. The most defined and logical route is the one leading to Sandakphu.
Read More
The morning after you have rested at Sabargram, you wake up to a refreshing morning. Your legs may be fatigued from the stress of the previous two days.
However, do not miss the experience of the sunrise at Sabargram where you get to witness the sun rising above the floating clouds.
Once you get your breakfast and morning tea in, you will be good to go. The crisp and cold morning breeze fills up your lungs as you get ready for the journey today. It’s going to be a long day but not very stressful. The route starts at the same point as the last day but instead of going towards Phalut, you walk in the opposite direction. The route runs along the Singalila ridge on the actual India-Nepal border all through to the Sandakphu top. You come across several trodden paths crisscrossing the terrain. All look more or less the same. The most defined and logical route is the one leading to Sandakphu.
The trails are the best you will encounter on this trek in terms of unique scenery. The landscape is dotted with tall shafts of pine trees which appear to have been cursed and petrified with pointed tops and little to no branches. Some appear to have been burned from the inside out indicative of lightning strikes. The route has an immense concentration of rhododendron in full bloom in April and May. There are small wooden recluses along the route built and used by local cattle herders that surely add to the serenity of the place. The backdrop of the landscape is adorned by the Buddha in his eternal sleep. It is as if you are walking through a three-dimensional painting.
Halfway through the route, you will arrive at a small pond called Kali Pokhri where there’s a trekker’s hut too. This place is called Thokum, where you’ll have your lunch. This however shouldn’t be confused with Kali Pokhri which comes on another route to Sandakphu from Manebhanjan. You can rest here for a while before proceeding further. Some trails branch off into Nepal. The route also has concentrations of Rhodo shrubs which bloom in white and pink in April and May. Unlike the red flowers which are medicinal, the white and pink rhodos are poisonous and must not be consumed.
As a thumb rule remember that India is on your left-hand side of the route you started walking on. Therefore on any forks that you come on the way, you stick to the one forking left in the southwest direction as the crow flies. You will arrive at Aal by late afternoon.
Evenings in Winter bring up the rolling clouds from the foothills and it’s a mesmerizing view. The temperature starts to drop rapidly after dark. But step outside in the night and spend time watching the milky way, our nearby galaxies, nebulas and planets.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Aal to Gurdum via Sandakphu
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek Distance: 10 km
Altitude Gain and Loss: ⇘ 4,175 ft (11,570 ft to 7,395 ft via 11,930 ft)
Difficulty: Easy. Complete descend with a gradual decline. Today won’t be as tiring as previous days as you will descend all through till Gurdum.
Highlights: Panoramic view of some of the tallest mountain ranges in the world.
You wake up early to catch some amazing panoramic views of the surrounding landscape during sunrise. You would not want to miss the first rays of the sun falling on the mountain peaks as the sun comes up. It lights up the distant peaks with a crimson-golden hue, which is an amazing sight to behold. It’s one of the finest examples of the natural beauty you get to witness in the Himalayas.
The main attraction of this spot is the 180-degree views of one of the world’s most coveted panoramas: Makalu, Lhotse, Everest, Nuptse, Baruntse, Chamling and Chomo Lonzo. Three sister peaks stand tall towards the north and of course, the Sleeping Buddha lies before you. Towards the east, you see the highest ranges of Bhutan, where Chomolhari, the highest peak, rises above all the others.
After you have captured the images in your memory and cameras you proceed further on the route towards Sandakphu. Sandakphu lies 1 km ahead of Aal. It shouldn’t take more than 30 minutes to reach here.
All along the route to Sandakphu from Aal, you are accompanied by the Sleeping Buddha and Everest group of mountains.
From Sandakphu, using the thumb rule, start descending on the left trail at the fork you come at after Sherpa Chalet Hotel and Sunrise Hotel. The right trail leads you down to Kalipokhri and you don’t have to take that route. From here on, the trail is over a ridge and directly leads to Gurdum. It takes a steady 2 hours to walk up and down a few hillocks with gentle gradients to reach a small pond where you settle down for lunch and rest a bit. Before reaching Gurdum, you will pass through 3 stupas where we will stop for a break.
Read More
You wake up early to catch some amazing panoramic views of the surrounding landscape during sunrise. You would not want to miss the first rays of the sun falling on the mountain peaks as the sun comes up. It lights up the distant peaks with a crimson-golden hue, which is an amazing sight to behold. It’s one of the finest examples of the natural beauty you get to witness in the Himalayas.
The main attraction of this spot is the 180-degree views of one of the world’s most coveted panoramas: Makalu, Lhotse, Everest, Nuptse, Baruntse, Chamling and Chomo Lonzo. Three sister peaks stand tall towards the north and of course, the Sleeping Buddha lies before you. Towards the east, you see the highest ranges of Bhutan, where Chomolhari, the highest peak, rises above all the others.
After you have captured the images in your memory and cameras you proceed further on the route towards Sandakphu. Sandakphu lies 1 km ahead of Aal. It shouldn’t take more than 30 minutes to reach here.
All along the route to Sandakphu from Aal, you are accompanied by the Sleeping Buddha and Everest group of mountains.
From Sandakphu, using the thumb rule, start descending on the left trail at the fork you come at after Sherpa Chalet Hotel and Sunrise Hotel. The right trail leads you down to Kalipokhri and you don’t have to take that route. From here on, the trail is over a ridge and directly leads to Gurdum. It takes a steady 2 hours to walk up and down a few hillocks with gentle gradients to reach a small pond where you settle down for lunch and rest a bit. Before reaching Gurdum, you will pass through 3 stupas where we will stop for a break.
After that, it’s a complete descent till Gurdum which is about 3.5 - 4 km away, which takes another 1.5 - 2 hours. As you come closer to Gurdum, you will again start seeing the bamboo vegetation which will tell you that your destination is not far. Gurdum is yet another quaint village just like Samanden. Although not as beautiful as Samanden it has its rustic charm and provides you with an excellent place to finally unwind and take proper rest. Your stay is arranged for at a local homestay run by the Nepali folks residing here. This is called Gurdum Homestay. Our trekkers love staying at this homestay because the hosts are warm and welcoming. The hospitality that you receive at these homestays in general is very basic but outshines a lot of commercial hotels.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
Day 7: Trek from Gurdum to Sepi. Drive from Sepi to Siliguri
Trek Duration: 3 hours | Trek Distance: 4 km
Drive Duration: 7 hours | Drive Distance: 130 km
Altitude Loss: ⇘ 1,000 ft (7,395 ft to 6,400 ft)
Highlights: Scenic views of village settlements as you descend to Sepi. The drive back to Siliguri takes you through the same route you had taken on Day 1.
The next morning again is going to be a complete descent which passes through the same sort of vegetation setting as on day 2 of the trek. Your destination is the same place you started your trek from. It’s about 4 km from Gurdum and you will reach there by mid-noon. Along the way, you will start seeing more and more of the village houses as you proceed towards the Sepi suspension bridge. Routes coming from different directions converge as tributaries of a major river and lead you to the Sepi bridge.
Once you reach the destination, you have your lunch and depart for Siliguri.
Read More
go to previous day Day 6
The next morning again is going to be a complete descent which passes through the same sort of vegetation setting as on day 2 of the trek. Your destination is the same place you started your trek from. It’s about 4 km from Gurdum and you will reach there by mid-noon. Along the way, you will start seeing more and more of the village houses as you proceed towards the Sepi suspension bridge. Routes coming from different directions converge as tributaries of a major river and lead you to the Sepi bridge.
Once you reach the destination, you have your lunch and depart for Siliguri.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult is the Sandakphu - Phalut Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 68 km in six trekking days during which you will gain approximately 5,530 ft (6,400 ft to 11,930 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents on uneven trails. The trek duration on all days will be around 7-8 hours except Day 7.
The Terrain:
The route from Sepi to Rammam village is a continuous steep ascent that will test anyone’s limit. Hydrate well to avoid muscle cramps.
The trail to Molley from Samanden is a continuous 10 km steep ascent with 4,460 ft of height gain. If you haven’t prepared well, this can be difficult on your legs.
The descent from Sandakphu to Gurdum is steep, and it can get slippery and tricky when it's raining or snowing.
Please Note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as microspikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather:
On this trek, you are walking on a ridge throughout from Phalut to Sandakphu. This makes it extremely windy and cold especially in autumn and winter.
On the Sandakphu - Phalut trek, snowfall is a distinct possibility near Phalut. Especially in the winter months or towards the end of January. Phalut is famous for its strong winds, which can significantly amplify the chill factor.
Rainfall or snowfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can make the trails too slushy to walk safely on. Snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
On the days you trek from Molley to Phalut and Phalut to Aahl, it gets extremely cold. This is because you are walking on an exposed ridge throughout.
Please Note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
The steepest climb is on Day 3 taking you from 7,760 ft to 11,220 ft, giving you a 4,460 ft height gain. This quick climb along with the exertion of the trek and exposure to the cold can lead to the development of altitude sickness in some people.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
If you are on the route between Sepi and Molley, the closest exit would be via the roadhead at Rammam.
After crossing Molley, the closest exit would be via the motorable road ahead of Sabagram, that connects Sandakphu-Phalut to Maneybhanjyang and beyond.
Closest Hospital to the Sandakphu Phalut Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital on the trek is at Rimbik (before reaching Sandakphu). After you cross Sandakphu, the closest hospital is in Sukhia Pokhri. You will need to drive through Mane Bhanjang to reach this hospital.
If you need serious medical attention, it is best to head down to Siliguri for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time to do the Sandakphu - Phalut Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
The Sandakphu trek can be done for about 8 months of the year barring only the rainy months of May to August.
The trek shows you a new flavour every season, starting with the Rhododendrons and magnolias in the spring to crisp golden views of autumn and finally the mild snowy setting of winter. You can see the views, the landscapes, and the flora and fauna change from season to season. It is one of the Best Himalayan treks for Bird Watching .
Unless you specifically have a choice to experience something like the flowers or clear views of snow, Sandakphu is a great trek to do all 8 months of the year when it is open .
Through the monsoon season, from May to August the trek remains closed to visitors.
Sandakphu - Phalut in Winter
Day time: Between 8 °C and 12 °C Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 0 °C and -3 °C
You will find snow at Phalut and Sandakphu in the peak winter months of January and February.
No. of warm layers required: 5 warm layers
Sandakphu lies at a lower latitude as compared to the western Himalayas.
The angle of the sun in winters and the altitude of the eastern Himalayas make a perfect canvas for colourful skies at dusk and dawn. Very few treks come close when we talk about skies at twilight.
Sandakphu is a trek known for its sunrises and sunsets. There aren’t many treks wherein clouds speckle the ground, not the sky. The sun rises and sets below you.
And then there is the attraction of snowfall during winter.
The good thing about snowfall at Sandakphu is that it is mild. Good enough to experience snow but not bad enough that the trail gets blocked.
Moreover, there aren’t as many tourists on the trail so there is a greater sense of solitude in winters.
Views: Views get even better. Sunrises and sunsets are out of the world. Some of the best twilight skies.
Crowds: Hardly any tourists as the roads become difficult to drive on and fewer vehicles on the trail.
Snow: Mild snowfall that doesn’t block the trekking trails.
Sandakphu - Phalut in Spring
Day time: Between 15 °C and 20 °C Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 1 °C and 5 °C
Presence of snow: You will not find snow on Sandakphu - Phalut in Spring
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
As spring arrives in March, different magic begins to unfold. Rhododendrons begin blooming.
The whole trail is speckled with various types of flowers. Red, pink Rhododendrons and white Magnolias dominate the landscape.
The flowers more than makeup for the lack of views owing to frequent showers that come down on the trail.
By mid-April, the rains become more frequent. You might still be able to trek. But it’s not as much fun.
Views: Occasional showers might turn the trail foggy or prevent the views of long-distance peaks and ranges.
Flora & Fauna: Rhododendrons and Magnolias are in full bloom. This is the best time to see the flowers.
Sandakphu - Phalut in Autumn
Day time: Between 13 °C and 18 °C Night time: Will drop to temperatures between 5 °C and 0 °C
Presence of snow: You will not find snow on the Sandakphu - Phalut trek in Autumn
No. of warm layers required: 4 warm layers
Starting from the last week of September, Autumn in Sandakphu extends to November. The air is crisp, the days are sunny, and the views are clear. The rains subside and have washed away all the dust and pollution hanging in the sky.
Mountain views are the best at this time. Autumn in Sandakphu is also fantastic for its golden colours, especially during the sunsets and sunrises.
This is also a great time to spot the varied varieties of birds in the national park.
The only flip side of trekking to Sandakphu in Autumn, especially October is the number of people on the trail. The Durga Puja holidays in October see a big number of tourists taking the Land Rovers and coming to Sandakphu. It also sees a big spike in trekkers from Bengal usually trekking independently on their own.
To avoid the crowd and still get the best of Autumn, time your trek in November or even early winter.
Views: The air is clear and the view of peaks far away is amazing.
Crowds: A popular time for visiting. Not just trekkers but also tourists on the trail.
Flora & Fauna: Easier to spot birds on the trail.
How to Reach the Base Camp
Plan your travel
toggle accordion
Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, which is the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 25 August, book your air tickets for 24 August to either Kolkata/Bagdogra.
There are three options.
Option 1: Fly directly to Bagdogra
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at NJP/Siliguri. However, if the cost of the flight ticket to Bagdogra is too high, book Kolkata and connect to NJP by train.
Tip : From Bagdogra International Airport take a shared Auto to Siliguri (frequently available till evening), it will cost you around Rs. 250-300. Taxis are also available from the airport (plenty). Airport taxis are expensive. Look for shared auto to Siliguri. Plan your stay at Siliguri.
Option 2: Fly to Kolkata and take a train to New Jalpaiguri
Flying to Kolkata may be a lot cheaper than getting to Bagdogra. Make sure to book a flight that reaches Kolkata before 6.00 pm. You must arrive in Kolkata on Day Zero and not on Day 1.
Note: If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Kolkata and Bagdogra is less than Rs 1,000 then book directly to Bagdogra. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
From Kolkata, there are multiple overnight trains to Siliguri. But there's usually a lot of rush for train tickets. So please book in advance. Since your pick-up is at 9 AM, book tickets for trains that reach early by 6 or 7 AM so that you have some buffer time for delays.
Option 3: Take a bus from Kolkata to Siliguri/NJP
You get both government (NBSTC) and private transport Volvo buses from Esplanade, Kolkata to Siliguri. Board the bus around 7.30 pm on Day Zero to reach in time for your pickup.
Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, keep some buffer time in mind before booking tickets. You are scheduled to reach your drop-off point by 9 pm max. So book your onward bus or train tickets by factoring for a buffer in case of unforeseen delays.
Next, if your onward flight departs from Bagdogra/ Kolkata, then book flight tickets for Day 8.
Option 1: Fly from Bagdogra
On Day 7, you will be back at Siliguri by 9 pm. Plan your stay at Siliguri, the next day take a flight back to your home city from Bagdogra.
If flights are expensive from Bagdogra, book flights from Kolkata the next day (Day 8).
Option 2: Train to Kolkata and then onward flight to your city
Since you only reach by 9 PM, the only overnight train option from NJP to Kolkata is the Kaziranga Express (13182), which reaches Kolkata around 12.30 PM the next day. You can book your flight out of Kolkata accordingly. The Kolkata Airport is quite far from any of the Railway Stations. So please factor in travel time before booking flight tickets.
Pro Tip: Buses in Kolkata are very cheap, try travelling by bus in Kolkata to the airport.
Option 3: Bus to Kolkata
This is not a good option for Day 7 as the buses depart between 6 pm to 7 pm.
You can look at this option on Day 8 after taking some rest either at Darjeeling or Siliguri.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Sandakphu-Phalut Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
Packing List
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Sandakphu Phalut Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Sandakphu Phalut Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Sandakphu Phalut Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Is Sandakphu open now? expand accordion
Yes, the Sandakphu trek is open now. The trek can be done for about 8 months of the year barring only the rainy months of May to August. The temperature at Sandakphu in winter lies between 8 °C and 12 °C during day time and will drop to 0 °C and -3 °C during the night. The weather forecast usually remains clear with occasional mild snowfall.
What is the Height of Sandakphu - Phalut Trek? expand accordion
Sandakphu is located at a height of 11,930 ft above sea level. Even if the altitude in itself might not seem impressive, what makes Sandakphu special is the mighty mountain ranges and peaks that you get to view on the trek.
Of the 7 Himalayan Ranges, (Karakoram, Punjab, Garhwal, Kumaon, Nepal, Purvanchal and Sikkim) you trek through 3 of the ranges (Nepal, Purvanchal and Sikkim). Moreover, you’ll also get to view 3 of the highest mountains in each of these ranges – Everest in Nepal, Kanchenjunga in Sikkim and Choma Lahuri in Purvanchal.
This is what makes Sandakphu an extremely special trek.
How long is Sandakphu - Phalut trek? expand accordion
Sandakphu – Phalut trek is 65 km long. Starting from Sepi (6,400 ft) the trek takes you to the highest point in West Bengal – Sandakphu at 11,930 ft before heading down to Sepi (6,400 ft) over 6 days.
Be prepared for long and at times steep ascents and descents. It is therefore essential that you physically prepare yourself for the trek by following a fitness regime.
Is Sandakphu a trek for beginners? expand accordion
Sandakphu Phalut is a good trek for beginners. But be prepared for the longish walks every day. In 6 days you cover 65 km making it an average of 11 km per day.
Your target should be to cover 5 km in 35 minutes comfortably by the start of the trek.
What kind of accommodation can I expect? expand accordion
Sepi: Experience the rich Indo-Nepal culture over your stay at an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay at tea-houses on all days of your trek, except at Sabargram. At Sabargram, stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Important Note: Accommodation on the Sandakphu-Phalut trek is strictly gender-based. Special requests cannot be accommodated.
Is the Sandakphu - Phalut trek difficult? expand accordion
The Sandakphu Phalut trek is a moderate trek on a difficulty scale ranging from easy to difficult.
Starting from Sepi at 6,400 ft you’ll climb to Sandakphu at the highest altitude of 11,950 feet. Molley and Phalut also hover around a similar height.
From Phalut, it is a steep descent to Samanden at 7,500 ft and then on to Sepi at 6,400 ft where the trek ends.
The Sandakphu Phalut trek does not have big climbs and descents on a day to day basis. The trek however, makes you cover long distances everyday.
Where is Sandakphu located? expand accordion
Sandakphu is located in the Darjeeling district of West Bengal. This trek is located on the Indo-Nepal border. It is located about 685 km from Kolkata and 68 km from Darjeeling.
How to get fit for Sandakphu trek? expand accordion
Sandakphu trek requires a good fitness level. It has long high altitude climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us
Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
What is the best time to do Sandakphu trek? expand accordion
The Sandakphu trek can be done for about 8 months of the year barring only the rainy months of May to August.
The trek shows you a new flavour every season, starting with the Rhododendrons and magnolias in the spring to crisp golden views of autumn and finally the mild snowy setting of winter. You can see the views, the landscapes, the flora and fauna change season to season. It is one of the Best Himalayan treks for Bird Watching.
Unless you specifically have a choice to experience something like the flowers or clear views or snow, Sandakphu is a great trek to do all 8 months of the year when it is open.
Through the monsoon season, from May to August the trek remains closed to visitors.
Is cloakroom facility available at the Sandakphu trek? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at the basecamp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
(The luggage could be a backpack / suitcase / duffel bag or anything similar.).
Please do ensure that you do not leave valuable belongings in our cloakroom facility. If you do so, do inform our staff so that they can take the necessary precautions to keep it safe.
I am more than 58 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Before you register for the trek, we would like you to understand the challenges, and the fitness required.
On Moderate treks, you walk for about 6-8 km each day. The ascents and descents could get steep. The maximum altitude will range between 13,000 ft to 14,000 ft. You’ll come across tricky patches frequently (like snow or scree), which require you to navigate with a certain amount of caution. There might also be small stream/river crossings.
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Sandakphu-Phalut trek is Rs 2,400 without GST.
Find details about the offloading process here.
I'm holding a foreigner with a non-Indian passport or I have an OCI card. Can I trek to Sandakphu-Phalut? expand accordion
Yes, foreigners, non-Indian passport holders and OCI card holders can trek to Sandakphu Phalut.
What is a tea house? expand accordion
Tea house are small lodges where you get to rest and have food. Rooms are basic, dormitory style with 4 to 6 beds. You will be provided with mattress, blanket, pillow for the night. There will also be a toilet with water facility.
I am a foreign national. Do I need to pay any extra amount of money for this trek? expand accordion
Yes, you do. The state tourism department charges slightly higher fees for foreign trekkers to issue permits for this trek. You need to carry an extra amount of Rs 1,500. Additionally carry 4-5 copies of your passport along with your VISA.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.