Tarsar Marsar Trek 2026 | Kashmir’s Prettiest Lake Trek Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Tarsar Marsar
Arguably The Prettiest Trek In India
We are have called off this trek for 2026. Consider the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek instead.
With grand meadows and a dramatic crossover to Spiti, we rank Pin Bhaba among Our Top 3 Treks of All Time. View the Pin Bhaba Pass Trek
Arguably The Prettiest Trek In India
Tarsar Marsar is arguably the prettiest trek in India. This is a title we do not give treks lightly. Especially when its formidable sister trek, Kashmir Great Lakes , is in the picture.
However, Tarsar Marsar is a trek where alpine lakes take a life of their own. It is not just the fact that you get to camp beside these royal blue, snow-fed lakes (you don’t get this camping chance even at KGL). Or the secluded nature of these campsites (a Godsend in today’s trekking scenario!).
play video
You get to circumvent the entire perimeter of Tarsar and Sundersar, offering you multiple perspectives of the very same lake!
Read more
expand overview
You get to circumvent the entire perimeter of Tarsar and Sundersar, offering you multiple perspectives of the very same lake!
Then there is the elusive Marsar, almost always hidden under a shroud of clouds. We see this lake from an overhang, sitting 600–700 ft below. It is a perfect spot to witness the grandeur of the lake, with the sun rising right above it. This is until dollops of clouds waft their way through the U-shaped valley and settle above the lake. The lake disappears from view within seconds!
The Tarsar Marsar trek takes you right to the heart of Kashmir. From the quaint village of Aru to the clearings of Lidderwat. From the rolling green mountains of Shekhawas to the massive alpine lakes. The setting of Tarsar Marsar is such that it leaves you visually stunned for weeks together!
Why you must opt for Indiahikes Shield on Kashmir Treks
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield, which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Tulian Lake : Take on the adventure of trekking to Tarsar Marsar, arguably the prettiest trek In India, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Aru on Day 1 to lunch at Aru on Day 7 are covered in your trek fee.
Accommodation
Local Homestay: Experience the rich culture of Kashmir by staying in an authentic homestay that offers a true taste of regional life.
On the Trek : Stay in our sturdy four-season tents (two trekkers per tent) built to withstand harsh weather and provide comfort in all conditions.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.a
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
To and from the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point: Travel expenses from your hometown to the Indiahikes Pick-Up Point are not included in the trek fee.
To and From Indiahikes Base:
- You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
- On Day 1, pick-up from Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Srinagar to Aru costs Rs 600 per vehicle, which is to be shared by trekkers availing the pick-up.
- On Day 7, the drop-off to Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Srinagar from Aru costs Rs 750.
All vehicles are non-AC.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, cutlery (tiffin box / mug), backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. It will cost Rs. 200 for the first 10 kg bag. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
The maximum permissible weight for a bag is 10 kg. Anything beyond 10 kg is considered second luggage and will be charged accordingly.
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs. 4800 (additional 5% GST) for the entire trek duration.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Tarsar Marsar - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek. Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Tarsar Marsar trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find these extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this chart to know how much altitude you would gain/lose every day on the Tarsar Marsar Trek
Day 1
Drive from Srinagar to Aru
Drive distance: 100 km | Drive Duration: 3-4 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Sheikh Feroze Tours & Travels, Sathu, Barbara Shah Chowk, Srinagar
Transport will be organised from Srinagar at 8.00 am. The cost is Rs.600/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Srinagar to Aru . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Note : The process of your registration, health screening, and document verification starts at 1 pm. Ensure you reach Aru on time for it. Do not travel elsewhere on this particular day before your trek.
Day 2
Trek from Aru to Lidderwat
Trek distance: 10 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude gain: 7,960 ft to 9,120 ft
Easy-moderate. Initial gradual ascent for about half an hour followed by gentle undulating walk until you reach the campsite of Lidderwat.
Day 3
Trek from Lidderwat to Shekwas
Trek distance: 5.6 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude gain: 9,120 ft to 11,035 ft
Moderate. Continuously ascending trail for the first couple of hours with a few short level walks. You have a river crossing just before Homwas followed by a gradual ascent.
Day 4
Trek from Shekwas to Tarsar
Trek distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude gain: 11,035 ft to 12,435 ft
Moderate. Continuous ascent, mostly on gradual inclines to reach the ridge and then entering into the meadows of Tarsar.
Day 5
Trek from Tarsar to Sundersar via Tarsar Pass
Trek distance: 5 km | Trek Duration: 5 hours | Altitude gain: 12,435 ft to 12,945 ft via 13,140 ft
Moderate. Steep ascent in the beginning to the pass, followed by a descent and then a gentle ascent to Sundarsar.
Day 6
Trek from Sundersar to Homwas via Marsar
Trek distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 7 hours | Altitude loss: 12,945 ft to 11,300 ft via 13,165 ft
Moderate. An hour ascent to Marsar. You later have a gradual descent all the way to Homwas.
Day 7
Trek from Homwas to Aru. Drive to Srinagar
Trek distance: 13 km | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude loss: 11,300 ft to 7,960 ft
Easy. Gradually descending trail all the way to Aru.
From Aru, transport to Srinagar will be organised by Indiahikes. The cost is Rs. 750/- (additional 5% GST) per trekker for the transfer from Aru to Srinagar . These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory:
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield .
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guide with photos
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Day 7
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Srinagar to Aru
Duration: 3 hours drive | Drive Distance: 100 km
Altitude: 7,960 ft (2,426 m)
Highlights: There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
Pahalgam is about 100 km from Srinagar and Aru is 12 km away from Pahalgam. Pahalgam is a more familiar place around Srinagar so if you are reaching on your own, take a shared vehicle from Srinagar to Pahalgam. It takes about 3 hours to get there.
There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
From Pahalgam, Aru is right across the Lidder River. It takes another half an hour to cover this distance. Today, after a 3.5 hours drive from Srinagar you reach Aru by 1 pm. There are plenty of places to stay at Aru, though they are a tad expensive. Indiahikes trekkers will stay in a homestay at the campsite.
Read More
Pahalgam is about 100 km from Srinagar and Aru is 12 km away from Pahalgam. Pahalgam is a more familiar place around Srinagar so if you are reaching on your own, take a shared vehicle from Srinagar to Pahalgam. It takes about 3 hours to get there.
There are two lovely routes to Pahalgam; one through Anantnag and the other through Bijbehra. The Bijbehra route is a tourist trail where you will drive through excellent rural Kashmir scenery. What tops it is the abundance of apple orchards, walnut and apricot trees along the way.
From Pahalgam, Aru is right across the Lidder River. It takes another half an hour to cover this distance. Today, after a 3.5 hours drive from Srinagar you reach Aru by 1 pm. There are plenty of places to stay at Aru, though they are a tad expensive. Indiahikes trekkers will stay in a homestay at the campsite.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 2: Trek from Aru to Lidderwat
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek distance: 10 km
Altitude gain: ⇗ 7,960 ft to 9,120 ft
Difficulty: Easy-Moderate. Initial gradual ascent for 30 minutes followed by a gently undulating walk.
Highlights: About 20 minutes when you start into the trail from Aru, we get to see the entire valley dotted with tiny houses. This view is something you don't see from any other place. Catch the first glimpse of what the Kashmir meadows would look like when you reach the tabletop. After about an hour of trekking, the valley opens up and you walk next to the Lidder River. Watch out for the Sheep houses, and bridges throughout the day.
It is a gentle but long climb from Aru to Lidderwat, covering a distance of 10 km in 6 hours. The trail to Lidderwat starts to climb straight out of the village, following the course of the Lidder River. Follow the wide trail past the agricultural department’s fence.
Look back to take a commanding view of the entire region of Aru.
The trail gets into a cluster of fir trees and continues to climb. Half an hour later, the trail pops out at a clearing called Dalla, near Gujjar huts. At Dalla, the trail is no longer a climb, but a gentle undulating walk through thick pines. 20 minutes later, a wide fork in the trail under a giant fir tree signals the diversion to Nandkei.
Read More
It is a gentle but long climb from Aru to Lidderwat, covering a distance of 10 km in 6 hours. The trail to Lidderwat starts to climb straight out of the village, following the course of the Lidder River. Follow the wide trail past the agricultural department’s fence.
Look back to take a commanding view of the entire region of Aru.
The trail gets into a cluster of fir trees and continues to climb. Half an hour later, the trail pops out at a clearing called Dalla, near Gujjar huts. At Dalla, the trail is no longer a climb, but a gentle undulating walk through thick pines. 20 minutes later, a wide fork in the trail under a giant fir tree signals the diversion to Nandkei.
Nandkei is a cluster of Gujjar settlements across the Lidder. Continue on the trail with the forest thinning out progressively. Half an hour later, the trail leaves the cluster of trees completely and threads through open grasslands. Spot Gujjars and their families crisscrossing the meadows on horsebacks. The trail climbs over so gently that it is hardly noticeable.
Another half-hour later, the trail crosses two clear streams – the second one over a wooden bridge. The streams are clear and the water is safe to drink. It is another hour’s journey to Lidderwat from the bridge. Soon after the bridge, the trail climbs into another small cluster of pine trees.
Sometimes, during peak season, there’s a tea stall on the right – it serves as a good place to catch your breath over a cup of tea. Out of the pine trees, the trail gently climbs a mound, from the top of which is one of the most fascinating sceneries of the day. The Lidder River meets with the trail at the valley bottom, spreading out in springs. Next to the river are grassy glades where the trail runs. Beyond, the Lidder rushes out of a curve around more gorgeous fir forests.
It takes about half-hour to cross this lovely section of the trail and enter the cluster of firs once again. Across the forest and ten minutes later, are the superb meadows of Lidderwat. There are a few Gujjar huts that signal Lidderwat.
A sensible option is to drop down to the wooden bridge, climb out of the meadows on the other side, and camp anywhere. On the other side are lovely clear streams running across the meadows – this is vitally important if you are camping for the night. There are PDA (Pahalgam District Authority) huts for accommodation.
Pro Tip: In the evening, go down to the clump of coniferous trees you see on the map. There is a lovely Gujjar settlement there. You can get a peek at how life is in a Gujjar settlement. It's unlikely that you will get such a close view of a Gujjar settlement on any other trek.
There are also plenty of places to pitch camp. The PDA caretaker runs a private shop and there are quick bites to eat here. The Lidderwat camping site is a dream. Clear streams run across the meadows. Spare time to take long walks that stretch to either end of the meadows. It is a delight that you will rarely come across.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 3: Trek from Lidderwat to Shekwas
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek distance: 5.6 km
Altitude gain: ⇗ 9,120 ft to 11,035 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Continuously ascending trail for the first 2 hours with a few short level walks. River crossing just before Homwas followed by gradual ascent.
Highlights: The day when you further enter into the valley. Enjoy the day as you cross multiple streams with deep valleys and big meadows on both sides as you trek from Homwas towards Shekwas. Do not miss the sunset from this campsite. Zadsar is a lake close to Shekwas which is good during the early part of the season. It dries up later in August.
The trail to Tarsar starts to climb right behind the PDA huts – following the course of the river flowing alongside. It leaves the river below and climbs very quickly into the pine forest above you. The trail is straightforward and does not pose any challenge.
Continue to climb past clusters of pines and clearings for an hour and a half, until a stunning view opens up before you. The narrow valley of Lidderwat opens up to tracks of wide-sweeping grasslands. The grasslands merge with the towering mountains, with snow patches in their folds. It is no longer a single valley but many valleys that converge together. The trail ahead converges upwards and to the left past the Bhakarwal shelters, sticking to the right of the river.
Clear streams run down and cut through the trail many times. There are good spots to fill water.
Read More
The trail to Tarsar starts to climb right behind the PDA huts – following the course of the river flowing alongside. It leaves the river below and climbs very quickly into the pine forest above you. The trail is straightforward and does not pose any challenge.
Continue to climb past clusters of pines and clearings for an hour and a half, until a stunning view opens up before you. The narrow valley of Lidderwat opens up to tracks of wide-sweeping grasslands. The grasslands merge with the towering mountains, with snow patches in their folds. It is no longer a single valley but many valleys that converge together. The trail ahead converges upwards and to the left past the Bhakarwal shelters, sticking to the right of the river.
Clear streams run down and cut through the trail many times. There are good spots to fill water.
Avoid taking the upward trail. Drop down to the river and cross it, first hopping over a few boulders and then crossing a make-shift long bridge. Follow the river and continue to climb the trail. Half an hour later, the trail around a bend opens up to a wide clearing of Homwas.
There are a few friendly Gujjar huts where you can stop for tea. It is a delight treading on the trail after Homwas. It is mostly on grass and feels lovely under your feet. The trail, now in a south-westerly direction, enters a narrow valley with blue waters of the river as a constant company.
The climb continues to gain altitude. An hour later, you will pass a very old cluster of Silver Birch (Bhoj) trees, and the view opens up to another stunning scenery. This time, a possibly wider grassland leads to two wide green valleys. It stretches out vastly in front of you. Undulating meadows on your left reach out for the sky. Beyond the meadows, tall, dark, snow-patched cliffs shadow the landscape. The trail climbs swiftly past a few Gujjar huts to the camping grounds of Shekwas.
For those on the Tarsar trail, Shekwas is a logical and extremely pretty camping ground. It is a good break after the hard climb.
Pro Tip: Towards evening, take off your shoes and climb this grassy ridge just behind your campsite. Climb as high as you can and find a spot where you can sit and catch the sunset as it's happening in the valley opposite you.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 4: Trek from Shekwas to Tarsar
Trek Duration: 4 hours | Trek distance: 5 km
Altitude gain: 11,035 ft to 12,435 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Continuous ascent, mostly on gradual inclines.
Highlights: The element of surprise keeps you excited as you climb one mound to another just before reaching Tarsar. If you have time, go to the topmost point which is called the Marsar Point. This is where you get the views of both the lakes of Tarsar and Marsar. The other option is to go to Tabaksar.
Past Shekwas, the trail again snakes its way through the grass for a long while. The trail to Tarsar, meanwhile, climbs into a ridge that overhangs the stream.
In a general westerly direction, the trail climbs rapidly towards a conical hill in front. The trail tops a few false ridges, each opening up to different wondrous sceneries. Two hours later, the trail finally gives you a narrow glimpse of Tarsar. Even the slight glimpse is a delight and it is a rush to reach the shores of the lake. Cross the stream over boulders and set your foot on the grassy glades of Tarsar. There are plenty of flat camping spots along the lake and pitching tents is not an issue.
Pro Tip: Later in the evening, take a walk around the sides of the lake. Go to the far end of the lake, if possible. The view and colours of the lake from the other side are very different from what you see at the campsite.
Read More
Past Shekwas, the trail again snakes its way through the grass for a long while. The trail to Tarsar, meanwhile, climbs into a ridge that overhangs the stream.
In a general westerly direction, the trail climbs rapidly towards a conical hill in front. The trail tops a few false ridges, each opening up to different wondrous sceneries. Two hours later, the trail finally gives you a narrow glimpse of Tarsar. Even the slight glimpse is a delight and it is a rush to reach the shores of the lake. Cross the stream over boulders and set your foot on the grassy glades of Tarsar. There are plenty of flat camping spots along the lake and pitching tents is not an issue.
Pro Tip: Later in the evening, take a walk around the sides of the lake. Go to the far end of the lake, if possible. The view and colours of the lake from the other side are very different from what you see at the campsite.
The lake is a stunning display of nature’s capabilities. The waters are turquoise blue and in a cauldron surrounded by snow patches feeding the waters of the lake. If ever there was a place that could come close to paradise, then the camping shores of Tarsar are it!
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 5: Trek from Tarsar to Sundersar via Tarsar Pass
Trek Duration: 5 hours | Trek distance: 5 km
Altitude gain: 12,435 ft to 12,945 ft via 13,140 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. Steep ascent in the beginning to the pass, followed by a descent and then a gentle ascent to Sundarsar.
Highlights: The highlight of the day would have to be Jagmargi Plains. You just keep walking through the beautiful plains where the streams are knee-deep with horses running around. Sundersar is a moon-shaped lake and the perspective changes from each different point. Both Sunrise and Sunset are unique and something you shouldn't miss out on this. Sitting next to Sundersar during the night is another surreal experience.
The view from the other side of the Tarsar pass is another terrific attraction. The grassy valley stretches out from your left to right in a never-ending stretch of beauty that boggles the imagination. Even the anticipation of your walk on the valley floor is enough to set the heart racing.
On a side note, this is the same valley that leads to the Shekwas meadows. Most trekkers descend from Tarsar, until Shekwas, turn left and get into the Sundarsar valley. By climbing to the pass you’ve saved 3-4 hours of the trek.
Descend from the pass on the shepherds’ trail that leads to the bottom of the valley. Catch up with the trail that runs along the stream on the grassy bed of the valley. Move up the valley, to your left and continue on the trail. Ten minutes later, spot a few Bakkarval shelters on your left.
Read More
The view from the other side of the Tarsar pass is another terrific attraction. The grassy valley stretches out from your left to right in a never-ending stretch of beauty that boggles the imagination. Even the anticipation of your walk on the valley floor is enough to set the heart racing.
On a side note, this is the same valley that leads to the Shekwas meadows. Most trekkers descend from Tarsar, until Shekwas, turn left and get into the Sundarsar valley. By climbing to the pass you’ve saved 3-4 hours of the trek.
Descend from the pass on the shepherds’ trail that leads to the bottom of the valley. Catch up with the trail that runs along the stream on the grassy bed of the valley. Move up the valley, to your left and continue on the trail. Ten minutes later, spot a few Bakkarval shelters on your left.
Behind the shelter, the trail climbs over a short stretch of boulders to tap a knoll. What lies behind the knoll is something that poets reserve their best for. In a vast expanse of meadows, with a widening valley on your left, are the lushest grasslands you’ll ever see. Sheep graze gently on the meadows. Unmindful of your presence even as you brush past them. Horses munch on the same grass in gay abandonment. In the middle of the meadows, the stream turns into a large pond, fed by brooks from the snowmelt of the surrounding mountains. Snow patches on the mountains offset the greenery of the meadows. This delight of nature takes about half-hour to cross.
Pro Tip: I have never seen something as pretty as the Jagmargi meadows. A big part of the meadow is flower-decked with a silent stream running through it. Sheep grazing and horses galloping. Such a setting can only be imagined in a fairy tale. It is wondrous to see it unfolding before our eyes. Whenever on Tarsar Marsar trek, I ensure to trek very slowly through this section. You don't want to miss out on any part of the Jagmargi meadows by rushing through it.
Walk down the trails that lead to the end of the meadow. Towards the end, superbly laid boulders cover the stream. They are laid out so well that it appears as if they were constructed there. Hop along the boulders, climbing rapidly for another 15 minutes, until you reach the base of a ridge that separates the meadow from the valley above it. To get to the top of the ridge, the trail climbs through a narrow boulder-lined valley for another 15 minutes.
Topping the ridge is another moment for the poets.
Another meadow larger than the one you left behind sprawls out in front. Which is more beautiful, it’s hard to say. The settings are similar, almost identical. The valley floor is a vast bed of flowers. Far beyond is another ridge top – the exit route of the Tarsar trek. From the ridge top, look to your left and spot a grazing trail that leads into the folds of the mountains on your left.
The folds lead to enticing snow-laden flanks of mountainsides. Follow the trail that climbs past the stream running down the slope. Briefly, the trail hangs over similar well-laid boulders over the stream. Ten minutes later, the trail magically hops over landscaped grassy mounds to land on the lovely shores of the lake of Sundarsar. To your right and behind, are big flat stretches for camping. Sundarsar is the perfect camping spot after the lovely trek from Tarsar.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next 1
2
3
4
Day 6: Trek from Sundersar to Homwas via Marsar
Trek Duration: 7 hours | Trek distance: 9 km
Altitude gain/loss: 12,945 ft to 11,300 ft via 13,165 ft
Difficulty: Moderate. 40 minute ascent to Marsar. Gradual descent all the way to Homwas.
Highlights: The walk is pretty gentle on this day if you remove the boulder section. The trail that we take has multiple exist and can lead to different districts of Kashmir.
From Sundarsar, skirt around the shores of the lake from the right to get to the far side of the lake. There are two logical passes that one can climb. Both lead to Marsar.
The quicker one is over the boulder-laden trail on the left. Climb over the boulders and trace a path towards the pass. Snow over the boulders can make the approach tricky. An ice axe or a trekking pole helps a lot to gain a firm footing. It is a half-hour climb to the pass.
The pass is a lovely grassy stretch that has clear trails leading to flatter grounds just below it. Get down to the flatter stretches and occasionally hop over lovely brooks that run along the trails. Keep to the trail that veers to the left and spot a ridge that climbs on your left and in front.
Read More
From Sundarsar, skirt around the shores of the lake from the right to get to the far side of the lake. There are two logical passes that one can climb. Both lead to Marsar.
The quicker one is over the boulder-laden trail on the left. Climb over the boulders and trace a path towards the pass. Snow over the boulders can make the approach tricky. An ice axe or a trekking pole helps a lot to gain a firm footing. It is a half-hour climb to the pass.
The pass is a lovely grassy stretch that has clear trails leading to flatter grounds just below it. Get down to the flatter stretches and occasionally hop over lovely brooks that run along the trails. Keep to the trail that veers to the left and spot a ridge that climbs on your left and in front.
Five minutes later, climb over to the top of the ridge for an amazing view of Marsar almost 600-700 feet below. Marsar is a hidden beauty, almost always engulfed under dollops of clouds and mist. Almost as large as Tarsar, Marsar is similar looking. Tall, snow-lined cliffs rise off the lake. On the left, the overrun waters of the lake run down a lovely green valley towards Traal.
On the right, the outer edges of the Dachigam reserve forest almost climb up to the shores of the lake. Head back the way you came up to Marsar and get back to Sundarsar in about 40 minutes of descent. At Sundarsar campsite, you have breakfast and start from Homwas.
Pro Tip: On the return, you see the trek from an entirely new perspective. It's like you are doing a brand new trek. That's the most enjoyable part of returning to Aru.
You retrace your steps to Jagmargi valley. Trekkers are extremely lucky to view these grasslands twice and from different directions. Instead of crossing the Tarsar pass, you take a different route to Shekwas. Roughly an hour of walking from Shekwas to Homwas. You are expected to reach Homwas just in time for lunch. You camp at Homwas for the night.
go to previous day Day 5 Day 7 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 7: Trek from Homwas to Aru. Drive to Srinagar
Trek Duration: 6 hours | Trek distance: 13 km
Drive Duration: 3-4 hours | Drive distance: 100 km
Altitude loss: ⇘ 11,300 ft to 7,960 ft
Difficulty: Easy. Gradually descending trail all the way.
Highlights: Start early in the morning with the sunrise and colours changing in front of the mountains. It is a beautiful walk as you end the trek at Aru.
Today you take the same route that you had taken at the beginning of the trek via Lidderwat. The trail goes downhill and it is a quick descent. It will take you 2 hours from Homwas to Lidderwat.
The beauty of this part of your trek is that you will get to see all of those views that you had initially missed. The shrinking Kolahoi glacier is one of these sights. You will see the pine forests of Lidderwat that you had seen on day one of your treks in a whole new light. After getting some rest at Lidderwat, you head for Aru. It is a 10 km walk from Lidderwat to Aru.
This takes around 4 hours to cover. Stop for lunch en route, you are expected to reach Aru by 4 in the evening. Vehicles will be arranged from Aru to Srinagar. You will reach Srinagar between 7-8 pm.
Read More
Today you take the same route that you had taken at the beginning of the trek via Lidderwat. The trail goes downhill and it is a quick descent. It will take you 2 hours from Homwas to Lidderwat.
The beauty of this part of your trek is that you will get to see all of those views that you had initially missed. The shrinking Kolahoi glacier is one of these sights. You will see the pine forests of Lidderwat that you had seen on day one of your treks in a whole new light. After getting some rest at Lidderwat, you head for Aru. It is a 10 km walk from Lidderwat to Aru.
This takes around 4 hours to cover. Stop for lunch en route, you are expected to reach Aru by 4 in the evening. Vehicles will be arranged from Aru to Srinagar. You will reach Srinagar between 7-8 pm.
go to previous day Day 6
How Difficult Is Tarsar Marsar Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 47.6 km in six trekking days, during which you will gain approximately 5,205 ft (7,960 ft to 13,165 ft). Every day includes ascents, descents and boulder sections. Although not as many as on the Kashmir Great Lakes Trek, you have pass-crossings on Tarsar Marsar as well. These difficult sections require you to be alert and trek carefully.
Terrain:
The Tarsar Marsar Trek involves long days of trekking. Some days are more than 10 km long and involve strenuous ascents and descents. This requires you to be well-prepared.
Day 3, from Lidderwat to Shekwas, is a continuously ascending trail for the first couple of hours with a few short level walks.
You cross a river just before Homwas. This requires you to be nimble on your feet.
Day 4, from Shekwas to Tarsar, you need to negotiate a continuous ascent until you reach the ridge and then enter the meadows of Tarsar.
On Day 5, the climb up to Tarsar Pass from Tarsar Lake is challenging. The steep descent towards Sundersar is equally demanding.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Early in the season, you might find some snow patches left on the trail. That adds a bit of challenge. Especially if you’re not used to walking on snow. Streams are full and flowing fast. Be ready for a few cold stream crossings.
Although Kashmir lies in the rain shadow region and rain isn’t much of a worry on this trek, exceptions do happen. Rainfall or snowfall lasting hours can change the entire trek dynamic. Rain can flood the trails or make them too slushy to walk safely on, while snowfall can obstruct previously made paths, requiring fresh tracks to be cut on the snow.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude:
You don’t climb too high on this trek. The highest point goes upto around 13,000 ft. The gain in altitude is also gradual. However, at any altitude above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody, first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person runs an equal risk of developing AMS.
Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
On the Tarsar Marsar trek, your best bet is to descend to Aru or Sumbal.
When you are deep into the trek -- say at Sundarsar -- you easily take a day to reach the Aru exit. If you cannot afford that much time, check for the alternative route via Sumbal.
Caution : The Sumbal route is 15 km long and has a stiff descent with a tricky river crossing. Nevertheless, it is a saviour if you are short on time. You can exit within 8 hours from here.
Closest Hospital to the Tarsar Marsar Trek:
In case of a medical emergency, the closest hospital is at Pahalgam, which is a 30-min drive from the starting point of your trek at Aru. If you need serious medical attention, head to Srinagar for better facilities.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Tarsar Marsar Trek
Time your Trek well
toggle accordion
The best time to do the Tarsar Marsar trek is from the beginning of July to the beginning of September . It is the traditional monsoon season in the rest of the Indian subcontinent, but things are different in the Kashmir Valley.
Kashmir receives only mild rainfall in July and August. Not at all like in Himachal Pradesh or Uttarakhand. That's because of the Pir Panjal range which prevents most rain clouds from reaching the Kashmir valley.
It’s a boon because it makes for a comfortable trekking experience. In all the other seasons, it’s too cold to trek, the trail and the meadows are buried under snow for the most part.
But even if we look at just one season, the Tarsar Marsar trek changes appearance and colour throughout the three months - July, August and September.
Note: We've opened more groups for the Tarsar Marsar trek this June!
With unusually low snow deposits, the trek is now accessible earlier than usual. This will probably be the one time you will get to experience the Tarsar Marsar Trek in another season!
Tarsar Marsar in early July
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature: Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Trekking opens on the Tarsar Marsar trail in the first week of July. Until then the upper reaches are under heavy snow. The lower meadows open earlier. When you trek in July you can expect to see remnants of snow by the highest lake on the trek - Sundarsar. You may even see melting ice floes in the lake in early July. This setting offers a fleeting glimpse of what the landscape looks like for the rest of the year - buried under snow, punctuated with frozen lakes. Sometimes, even if it’s not the best phase to complete the trek, the sight is spellbinding.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
Tarsar Marsar from mid-July to the third week of August
Day time temperature: Between 15 °C and 20 °C | Night time temperature: Between 4 °C and 8 °C
Presence of snow: Now, the snow has almost melted. And the trail is carpeted with bright green meadows, which are in contrast with the rugged, grey mountains rising at the fringes. The best part is, that these meadows are densely dotted with so many wildflowers! Rains -- more like evening showers -- pick up during this time.
No. of warm layers required: 3-4 warm layers
After mid-July, the Tarsar Marsar trek starts revealing itself in full glory .
You experience this beauty, especially in the Jagmargi plains, as you trek over tiny flowers of colours ranging from violet, and purple to yellow and white.
Frozen chunks of the alpine lakes have melted by now. Waters of Tarsar and Sundarsar are deep blue. Look at Sundarsar from the vantage point, it has this signature royal-blue shade that you see in most photos.
Tarsar Marsar from the end of August to first week of September
Cold sets in as the season progress to the end of August. The evening showers become frequent. But when the clouds part during this time of the year, you witness brilliant blue skies. Their reflection deepens the blue of the alpine lakes , especially of Sundarsar.
You will also see a change in the colour of the meadows. They look a bit roasted, just with a tinge of brown. Watch out for this as you camp at Shekwas. Also, on the day you trek from Tarsar to Sundarsar.
The grass no longer retains the soft, fresh green tinge. The flowers too wilt. And yet, there’s a beauty to this change of tone.
We usually stop our trek towards the first week of September, but some lone trekkers do attempt it till the end of September. So, it’s doable. But may not be the most comfortable time, given the cold temperatures.
How To Reach Tarsar Marsar Basecamp
Plan your travel with this
toggle accordion
To reach the Tarsar Marsar trek, you must travel around 100 km south of Srinagar to Pahalgam. The base camp for the Tarsar Marsar trek is Aru , a picturesque hamlet 12 km from Pahalgam.
1. Here's a quick view of how to plan your travel
Day 0: Book your air ticket to Srinagar. We recommend you to reach Srinagar a day before the start date of your trek.
Some stay options for stay at Srinagar: Hotel Chinar Inn , Royal Athena Houseboats and Alhamra Retreats .
Day 9: Book a return flight ticket from Srinagar. Do not book plane tickets to your hometown from Srinagar on Day 8.
Note :
While getting to Srinagar, we recommend you arrive a day earlier and stay at Srinagar. Staying at Srinagar gives you a well-deserved rest for the night. Plus some bonus sightseeing.
On your return, your trek ends at Aru. We again arrange for transport for trekkers to reach Srinagar. You reach Srinagar between 4.00 and 5.00 pm.
Buffer Day: Keep a buffer day for emergencies. Your trek is 7 days long, but keep an extra 8th day as your buffer day. This is outside the itinerary. On a trek, you cannot predict bad rain, landslides, or a political situation. If you don't use the buffer day on the trek, you can always use it for sightseeing in Srinagar.
Always book your return flight/train tickets after including the buffer day in your itinerary.
2. Planning your onward flight/train booking
If you are travelling from Bengaluru, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai or any other city, book your air tickets for Day Zero, the day before Day 1 on the itinerary. If your trek start day is 24 July, book your air tickets for 23 July to either Srinagar.
There are two options.
Option 1: Fly directly to Srinagar
We recommend this. It gives you an added rest day at Srinagar or even better if you can head towards Aru.
You can travel to Aru, if you land at Srinagar before noon .
Option 2: Taking a train/bus to Jammu and reach Srinagar
(This option is not recommended during the pandemic. Many roadblocks en route from Jammu to Srinagar take as long as 24 hours to open. If you opt to travel via Jammu, keep at least 2 days in buffer)
If you are taking a bus to Jammu, you have multiple options. There are two gates outside Jammu ISBT. You will get shared cabs from both these gates.
If you are reaching the Railway Station, the share cabs to Srinagar will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000.
Tip: Shared cabs are more from the Jammu ISBT than the Railway Station. You can travel from the Railway station to the bus stand. They call it " Bus Adda ". The cost of the bus will be Rs 10. The auto will charge around Rs 80 to 120.
Pro Tip: Go to Banihal and catch a train to Srinagar (Naogaon) (Reaching Banihal will be again via shared cabs, which cost Rs 500 to Rs 700)
Auto from Srinagar Railway station to Dal Gate, around Rs 150 to Rs 200
This is faster than coming by cabs directly to Srinagar.
3. Planning your return flight/train booking
Booking your return tickets requires some thought. First, always book your return ticket, keeping in mind the buffer day.
The drive to Srinagar from Aru is about 3-4 hours. You will reach Srinagar by 5.00 pm. There are no flights from Srinagar late in the evening. So you need to stay in Srinagar. Take the flight the next day. You can book your flight tickets at any time on Day 9. The buffer day must be included in your itinerary. Day 8 is your buffer day. So plan your return journey for Day 9.
Note: The security check at the Srinagar airport is quite stringent. You will have 3 rounds of security checks. Reach the airport at least a couple of hours before your departure time.
Option 1: Flying out from Srinagar
Book your flight out from Srinagar.
Option 2: Taking a train/bus from Jammu
If you are taking the option of moving from Jammu, you will find shared cabs from Srinagar TRC to Jammu. The share cabs to Jammu will cost between Rs 700 to Rs 1000
| Pro Tip: Go to Srinagar (Naogaon) and catch a train to Banihal
From Banihal, you can take a shared cab to the Jammu bus stand or Railway station. The cost will be around Rs 500 to Rs 700
4. Planning your hotel/stay
While booking hotels on your return, always book your rooms assuming the buffer day is not being used. Assume the trek is going to run without any hiccups. So what happens if you use your buffer day on the trek? Unfortunately, then you’ll probably lose your hotel booking. So book hotels where you may not have to transfer money in advance. Even if you do, consider it better than missing out on the trek. In Srinagar, it is difficult to find last-minute hotel bookings when you finish the trek.
Hotel options at Srinagar
Hotel Chinar Inn is close to the pickup location. It has clean rooms with good amenities.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,500 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast). This is for a twin sharing room.
For a single person per room, it costs Rs 2,300 per person for a stay and meals (dinner and breakfast)
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/5V3CgXgAyD2biGcK6
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Royal Athena Houseboats is another option. In addition to good amenities, it gives you the experience of staying in a boathouse.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost will be Rs 1,750 per person including dinner and breakfast.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/Zq4BCzTGuBGzawP18
Contact Number: 7006608852 (Firoz)
Alhamra Retreats is a guest house with good facilities available.
If you are trekking with Indiahikes, the cost of a twin-sharing room is Rs 2,100. For an extra bed in the same room, it costs Rs 700 extra. Triple sharing is Rs 2,800 and four sharing is Rs 3,500.
Location: https://goo.gl/maps/6DCEkw7k7gDGwM449
Contact Number: +91 95965 56700 (Rehan Bakshi)
There are chances your shared/private vehicle may not go till Aru as some of them do not have permission to cross Pahalgam. Enquire about this with the driver.
Aru is 12 km from Pahalgam. Cabs to Aru usually leave from the non-touristy side of Pahalgam. Talk to your cab driver or locals to figure this one out. The journey is barely 20 minutes long.
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Tarsar Marsar Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What To Pack For Your Tarsar Marsar Trek
Things to take
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Tarsar Marsar Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Tarsar Marsar Trek
toggle accordion
We recommend walking/jogging/running as the best routine to get fit for any trek. It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
It helps increase your stamina gradually if done consistently. It is also an easy routine that does not require any equipment or tools.
play video
Fitness Target
To do the Tarsar Marsar Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
Trekking is a sport that primarily uses your lungs, core, calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. Being fit will help you enjoy the trek and will keep you safe.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular endurance
Muscle strength
If you are not currently active, follow the below schedule to get trek fit in 6 weeks!
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Tarsar Marsar Trek
Pro Tip: Warming up and cooling down before and after your workout is important. Do not miss that.
| Note : If you are not a regular runner, do not start running all of a sudden.
Strength Training Schedule:
play video
Note:
Alternatives to 40 Standard Pushups = (4 x 20 = 80 knee pushups) = (4 x 40 = 160 wall pushups)
Alternative to 60 full squats = (4 x 30 = 120 half squats)
Alternatives to 30 Standard Pushups = (3 x 20 = 60 knee pushups) = (3 x 45 = 135 wall pushups)
Alternative to 48 full squats = (4 x 24 = 96 half squats)
Alternative to jumping lunges = forward lunges (same count)
If you are not able to complete 1 full set of any plank, divide it into 2 halves and complete it with a rest break in between. For example: If you are not able to complete 1 minute of a standard plank, divide it into 2 sets of 30 seconds each.
After completing a few weeks of training, if you can progress, you may increase the number of sets or reps for desired results.
Important note: We accept only running, jogging or walking as fitness proofs. Cross-training workouts will not be considered valid. We've suggested cross training options to help keep your fitness journey engaging and fun, allowing you to explore activities you enjoy and to avoid inconsistency. So make sure to record at least 3 runs from the last 1 month to meet the fitness criteria of the trek.
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What happens if you are not fit:
You do not enjoy the trek
You struggle to be a part of the team because you’re slow.
You miss out on a deep, transformative experience that Indiahikes specially designs for you.
play video
The good part is it is not difficult. All you need to do is start following the fitness routine 6 to 8 weeks before your trek begins.
We are here to help you in this fitness journey. Just start slow and as long as you are committed and consistent with your routine, you are in for an unforgettable trek experience.
How to Get Fitness Approval from the Indiahikes Team:
Every trekker needs fitness approval from the Indiahikes team 20 days before the trek date. Without this, you will not be allowed on the trek.
play video
Note: Use apps like Nike and Strava to record your runs.
What to Upload:
Use fitness tracking apps such as Strava, Nike Run Club, or similar to log your runs and workouts.
Paste your profile's link on your Indiahikes account (your profile has to be public).
Ensure that at least 3 runs from the last 1 month meet the fitness criteria of your specific trek.
Instances we may reject your fitness record:
If you fail to link your fitness profile
If you do not meet the required fitness level at least three times in the past month
Important Notes:
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records.
However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
What will happen if my trek gets cancelled at the last minute? expand accordion
Security concerns and government orders often lead to last-minute cancellations in Jammu & Kashmir. While we make all the preparations to run the trek, we cannot guarantee that the trek will run. If such a situation occurs, we will try to organize an alternate trek within J&K or Himachal Pradesh, wherever possible. If not, we will cancel the trek and our cancellation policy will apply.
Such circumstances are under nobody's control, but it's best to be well-prepared. As trekkers ourselves, we understand the loss that you go through when such circumstances arise. To protect against such circumstances, we have the Indiahikes Shield - where you can avail a return of your full trek fee by paying a small additional charge.
We suggest you opt for the Indiahikes Shield , which will protect your trek fee during such uncertainties. You will find the option during the registration process.
Where is Tarsar Marsar? expand accordion
The Tarsar Marsar trek is situated in the Pahalgam district. It is slightly towards the west of Kashmir. The trek starts from Aru, a picturesque hamlet, which is 12 km from the famous touristy town of Pahalgam.
If you see the map, notice how the trek moves along with the Lidder river and touches three alpine lakes – Tarsar (12,435 ft), Marsar and Sundersar (12,945 ft). Observe how the route climbs over the Marsar pass (13,201 ft), drops to Homwas (11,300 ft) and then comes back to Aru.
Is it safe to trek in Kashmir? expand accordion
Yes, it is safe to trek in Kashmir. Talking about Tarsar Marsar, while the trek remains untouched during times of unrest, getting to the base camp or onto the trail might raise concerns in times of unrest.
So, here are certain pointers to keep in mind when you are travelling from Srinagar to Pahalgam and then Aru:
If you’re staying overnight at Srinagar, stay in touristy areas like Dal Lake or Lal Chowk.
Blend in with the crowd in terms of dressing and behaviour.
Avoid going to downtown areas. Stick to tourist spaces as they tend to be safer and well-protected during times of unrest
Don’t panic if there is a curfew. Keep calm and wait for it to pass.
How long is the Tarsar Marsar Lakes trek? expand accordion
On the Tarsar Marsar Lakes trek you cover 47.6 km in 6 days (7 days including the drive to and from the trek). The altitude ranges from 6,175 ft in Srinagar all the way to Marsar View Point at 13,165 ft. You’ll cover an average of 5-6 km everyday, except the last day when you cover 13 km. This is why the Tarsar Marsar Lakes trek requires good preparation.
How difficult is the Tarsar Marsar Lakes Trek? expand accordion
Tarsar Marsar trek, which climbs to 13,201 ft, is not really difficult. It is rated as 'moderate' . That too only because trekking days are slightly long.
A moderate rating refers to marginally longer trekking days with a few steep climbs (example: climb to Tarsar Pass, Marsar View Point). This makes it a notch more difficult than the easy-moderate treks like Kedarkantha and Dayara Bugyal.
But the trek has easy exits and there are no technical sections .
To get a clear picture, imagine covering a total of 47.6 km in 6 days. You gain approximately 5,243 ft during this journey, which is mild when spread over 6 days.
That means, on average, you cover 8 km every day. This includes gradual ascents and descents.
That's doable in a well-paced itinerary, like the one we follow for the Tarsar Marsar trek at Indiahikes. The key is to pace it out. It's important because you consistently trek above 10,000 ft for four days.
But if you cut it short, say skip camping at Shekwas, then you are exposed to the risk of AMS. In such a situation, be very cautious for any discomfort in your body which may point to AMS.
How fit do I need to be for Tarsar Marsar Lake Trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Tarsar Marsar Lakes trek requires a really good fitness level. The trek has long climbs and steep descents daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. Consistency of your workout also matters, so aim to jog 25 km a week or 100 km in a month. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us.
OR
Alternatively, cycle for at least 25 km in 60 minutes . Aim to cycle 125 km a week or 500 km in a month. However, running is better suited for your trek preparation.
How many months in advance should I book the Tarsar Marsar Lake trek? expand accordion
The Tarsar Marsar Lake trek has a narrow window for trekking. It is possible to trek in Kashmir for only 3 months in a year. The season starts in July and goes till the middle of September.
But the Tarsar Marsar Lake trek is one of the most popular treks in our country. Trekkers eagerly wait to do this trek.
This is why when we open groups for Tarsar Marsar Lake trek early in the year — by end of February-early march and they get fully booked within 2 weeks.
Will I get a mobile network and charging points during the Tarsar Marsar Lakes trek? expand accordion
You will get mobile connectivity only till Srinagar. After that the network is sketchy and almost non-existent.
Make sure you finish all your important telephone calls before starting your travel to the basecamp. Inform family members about poor connectivity during the trek.
Note : Prepaid SIM cards do not work in Kashmir.
As for electricity, you won’t have access to electricity or charging points anywhere during the trek.
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 45 minutes.
Is Offloading available on this trek? expand accordion
Having too many mules on a trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The total cost of offloading on the Tarsar Marsar trek is Rs 4,800.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Is Cloakroom facility available on this trek? expand accordion
We have a cloakroom facility available at Aru for extra luggage. It costs Rs 200 per luggage. You can keep up to 10 kg.
(The luggage could be a backpack/suitcase/duffel bag or anything similar.).
Relevant Checkpost timings expand accordion
Cross Anantnag Checkpost before 10 am and Pahalgam Checkpost before 12pm.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.