Valley of Flowers Trek 2026 | Trek India’s Most Famous Trail Just launched: A New 5-Day Unexplored India Travel Programme. This time, it's Unexplored Sikkim
View Unexploration
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile All Treks
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Treks by Name
Treks by Month
Treks by Difficulty
Treks by Experience
Treks by Season
Treks by Duration
Treks by Region
ALL TREKS
search
Upcoming Treks Unexplored India Trips
Outdoor Learning Programmes
Latest Articles
Documented Treks
Our Story
Careers Contact Us Shop Rent My Profile
Request A Callback
Valley of Flowers
A Legendary Trail the World Wants to Trek
We have announced dates for 2026 to Valley of Flowers-Hemkund Sahib.
Please scroll down to find the dates. Register soon as this is one of the fastest treks to fill. Click here to get personal help in planning this trek.
Highlights
The Indiahikes Campus at Karchi: At our Karchi Campus, you are right beneath the gaze of Dronagiri Peak. Being this close to a Himalayan giant before your trek even begins is rare.
Trek in India's Most Famous Valley: Discovered by accident, explorer Frank Smythe named it the Valley of Flowers. Today this UNESCO World Heritage Site with more than 500 documented flower species is among Himalaya’s most iconic treks.
The Changing Colours of the Valley: From July to September, new flowers bloom each week. Even in June, before peak bloom, the lush greenery and mountain views are stunning.
Sitting by the Pushpavati Riverbed: Trek to the Pushpavati Nala Riverbed at the far end of the valley. Not everyone makes it there — but just sitting by the river there, in complete silence is worth the extra effort.
Trek to Hemkund Sahib: Perched at 14,107 ft beside a huge glacial lake, trek to one of the world’s highest Gurudwaras. Witness rare Brahmakamal blooms on this trail in the late monsoon.
A Legendary Trail the World Wants to Trek in
The Valley of Flowers trek is one of the most well-known treks in India. Even if you’re not into trekking, chances are you’ve heard of it. Trekkers from around the world visit the valley– especially during monsoon, when wildflowers of every colour burst into bloom. Some of these flowers are so rare, you won’t see them growing like this anywhere else in the world.
But at Indiahikes, we feel the valley deserves much more credit than just for its flowers. Even without the blooms, the valley is pure magic. It’s nestled deep between tall mountains, with the Pushpavati River flowing right through it. The trail winds alongside this river, leading you to a stunning viewpoint of a glacier at the far end. You can dip your feet in icy streams and just soak in the silence. In monsoon, you see bursts of colours at every step. The flowers look perfectly manicured. Yet it’s all natural.
play video
It is important to time your visit well. Valley of Flowers has something different to offer each month. Read this article to find out the best time to trek here.
The trek’s cultural essence is equally captivating. You climb to Hemkund Sahib, a sacred lake perched over 14,000 ft above sea-level. The climb is tough. But as you go higher, you get stunning views of Ghangaria and the Valley of Flowers far below. It gives you a sense of how far you’ve come. The scenery shifts as you climb. Trees thin out, and alpine meadows begin to appear. If you are trekking in August, you stumble upon the sacred Brahma Kamal along the way. At Hemkund Sahib, you stand at the edge of a huge glacial lake with the dome-roofed Gurudwara sitting by the water. It’s a moment of peace that stays with you.
Read more
expand overview
The trek’s cultural essence is equally captivating. You climb to Hemkund Sahib, a sacred lake perched over 14,000 ft above sea-level. The climb is tough. But as you go higher, you get stunning views of Ghangaria and the Valley of Flowers far below. It gives you a sense of how far you’ve come. The scenery shifts as you climb. Trees thin out, and alpine meadows begin to appear. If you are trekking in August, you stumble upon the sacred Brahma Kamal along the way. At Hemkund Sahib, you stand at the edge of a huge glacial lake with the dome-roofed Gurudwara sitting by the water. It’s a moment of peace that stays with you.
However, the Valley of Flowers Trek isn’t without its challenges. The climbs to the Valley of Flowers and Hemkund Sahib from Ghangria are steep. The trek days are long and require good stamina.
But if you come prepared, it’s unforgettable. Trekking to the Valley of Flowers is a once-in-a-lifetime chance to witness a natural wonder the whole world dreams of experiencing.
How the World Came to Know About the Valley of Flowers: The story of how this trek was discovered is as fascinating as the valley itself. In 1931, legendary British mountaineer Frank Smythe and his team were returning from an expedition to Mt Kamet when they lost their way. They wandered into a hidden valley fed by the Pushpavati Nala. What they found left them spellbound—an endless stretch of vibrant wildflowers blooming in every direction. Smythe was so taken by the sight that he named it the “Valley of Flowers” in his book, forever putting this magical place on the map.
In 1980, the area was declared the Valley of Flowers National Park. Later, in 2002, it gained recognition as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Ever since then, the name has spread far and wide. Today, the trek is known globally and features in the bucket list of trekkers from all parts of the world.
5 Things We Love About the Valley of Flowers Trek
1) The Waterfalls Along the Trail
Not many of us associate the Valley of Flowers trek with waterfalls. But in peak monsoon, you start spotting them just after Poolna. Numerous rainfed streams cascade down the steep valley sides into the Pushpavati Nala. One of the most striking among them appears right as you enter the Valley. You stand on a wooden bridge over the Pushpavati, watching the waterfall crash into the stream with full force. Another stunning one lies just above Ghangria, on the way to Hemkund Sahib. It’s right after this waterfall that the zigzag climb to Hemkund begins. While we usually think of flowers and greenery when it comes to the Valley of Flowers, these streams and waterfalls add a whole new dimension to the trek.
2) View from the Blue Poppy Point
On the climb to the Valley of Flowers from Ghangria, well before you actually enter the valley, you reach the Blue Poppy Viewpoint. From here, you get a stunning bird’s-eye view of the entire valley — a lush green landscape winding along with the Pushpavati Nala. In the distance, the towering extensions of Gauri Parvat and the Tipra Bamak Glacier come into view. It beautifully sets the tone for the trek ahead.
3) The Valley of Flowers
The Valley of Flowers is the crown jewel of this trek. As you enter the valley, you are greeted by a vibrant carpet of wildflowers stretching across kilometres. Walking deeper into the valley, you notice the incredible diversity of flora. The variety in shapes, sizes, and colours is astounding. Every few steps reveal new flowers, and the cool mountain breeze carries their unique fragrances. The valley is alive, a natural masterpiece that feels almost magical.
4) Climb to Hemkund Sahib
The climb to Hemkund Sahib is challenging but deeply rewarding. Over a distance of 6 km, you ascend nearly 4,000 ft, taking you into the heart of the alpine zone. The trail offers dramatic views of Ghangaria and the Valley of Flowers from above, giving you a perspective of the journey you’ve undertaken. As you climb higher, the landscape changes. The treeline gives way to alpine meadows, and the air grows thinner. Upon reaching Hemkund Sahib, the pristine glacial lake and the surrounding peaks leave you awestruck. The lake reflects the Gurudwara and the towering mountains, creating a serene and spiritual atmosphere. For many, this moment is one of quiet reflection and gratitude.
5) A Cultural Journey
The Valley of Flowers Trek offers a glimpse into the incredible faith and resilience of people. The journey to Hemkund Sahib is undertaken by pilgrims of all ages, from children to the elderly. Some use ponies or porters, but many rely on sheer determination to reach the sacred site. The spirit of service at Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara is equally inspiring. Volunteers tirelessly clean the trails and serve food and warmth to visitors in freezing temperatures. Having a hot glass of tea at Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara after a tough climb is an experience like no other.
The Valley of Flowers trek takes you to one of nature’s most stunning creations. No wonder we see it as a favorite among travelers from all over the world.
Why you should opt for Indiahikes Shield
Trekking in the Himalayas comes with challenges such as heavy rain, roadblocks, floods, landslides, and permit restrictions imposed by the government. These situations are not within Indiahikes' control.
Before you register, please be prepared for the possibility that your trek might be called off due to these uncontrollable factors. In such cases, Indiahikes will make every effort to offer you a safe alternative trek. If that isn't possible, we will cancel your trek and issue a voucher for the trek fee in line with our standard cancellation policy.
However, if you would like to receive a full refund of your fee under such circumstances, opt for the Indiahikes Shield while registering. This shield grants you the option to receive a refund in case your trek is cancelled due to external reasons.
Note: Shield Refunds will not be applicable once the trek has begun, even if it cannot be completed due to unforeseen circumstances, including but not limited to adverse weather, wildlife movement, political unrest, or other such reasons.
Read before you offload
When you offload, a mule or porter will carry your belongings.
Offloading is for those with injuries, health issues or other limitations
Book via Your Profile after trek registration.
Max weight: 9 kg per person
We will provide you with a weather-resistant kit bag to transfer your belongings.
The kitbag will be carried by mules or porters.
You will not need a backpack if you're offloading. However, you will need a small day pack.
Find details about the Indiahikes Offloading Process here.
Trek Inclusions
The Indiahikes Experience
A Specially Designed Trek to Valley of Flowers : Take on the adventure of trekking to Valley of Flowers, A legendary trail the world wants to trek, supported by a carefully crafted trek plan that not only ensures safety but also enables:
Connection to Yourself: In a world that rarely slows down, the trek’s remote setting offers a chance to disconnect. Indiahikes Trek Leaders, backed by their facilitation training, help you look inward and build a deeper connection with yourself.
Connection to Nature: All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists, skilled in delivering insightful storytelling sessions on the natural elements you see on the trek.
Connection to Others: The trek is designed to foster teamwork, turning strangers into a close-knit group through shared challenges and meaningful experiences.
Accommodation
Karchi Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in lodges along the trail. No camping is allowed on the trail.
Important Note: Accommodation on the Valley of Flowers trek is strictly gender-based. Special requests cannot be accommodated.
Nutritious & Delicious Meals
A dedicated kitchen team prepares fresh, wholesome meals that are designed, keeping the requirements of a Himalayan Trek in mind. All meals from dinner at Karchi on Day 1 to dinner at Karchi on Day 5 are covered in your trek fee.
Top-Quality Gear
All Essential Camping Gear: We provide custom-made sleeping bags which are made to withstand -10 degrees outside temperature, hygiene liners, sleeping tents and foam mats. Other safety equipment like helmets, gaiters and micro-spikes is also provided when required.
Medical Safety Gear: Our team is equipped with an elaborate medical kit, which our Trek Leaders and guides are trained to use. Oxygen cylinders, thoroughly inspected, also accompany you throughout the trek. Our campsites are further equipped with large oxygen cylinders.
An Expert Team
A Trained Trek Leader: The Trek Leader ensures seamless operation on the trek and serves as your lead facilitator, nature guide and storyteller, ensuring that the trek is safe as well as enriching. All Indiahikes Trek Leaders are trained naturalists and highly skilled in managing medical emergencies, ensuring your safety in the challenging conditions of high-altitude remote wilderness.
Local Guides: Local guides are deeply familiar with the region and enhance your experience with their knowledge of the region, local flora and fauna, and customs.
Dedicated Kitchen Team: The kitchen team takes charge of your food experience on the trek, whipping up sumptuous food throughout the trek.
Trek Exclusions
Travel Expenses
You can choose to travel on your own. However, around 95% of our trekkers opt for the transport services organised by Indiahikes, since our drivers are trained, and the journey is safe and hygienic.
The cost is ₹1700 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) (₹3400 for both onward and return journeys). These are non-AC vehicles. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Personal Equipment
Any personal gear like jackets, shoes, backpacks are not included in the trek fee. We recommend renting them from our Crosstrek Rental Store for an affordable fee. View rental gear here .
Offloading
At Indiahikes, we encourage carrying your backpack to embrace the true spirit of trekking. However, if needed, you can opt to offload your backpack for a fee of Rs 800 (additional 5% GST) for the trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Cloakroom
We have a cloakroom facility available at the base camp for extra luggage. Every trekker is permitted to leave behind one piece of luggage at no charge. Anything beyond one piece of luggage is chargeable at Rs 500 per luggage.
Trek Insurance
A mandatory trek insurance fee is charged in addition to your trek fee. Since most medical insurance doesn’t cover adventure activities, trek insurance offers essential coverage, enhancing your safety without a significant financial burden.
Anything apart from inclusions
Terms and Conditions
1. Understanding the Risks of Trekking expand accordion
I understand that trekking is an adventure sport that involves:
Natural Hazards:
Extreme Weather: Sudden rain/ cloudburst/ flash floods, Glacial Lake Outburst Floods (GLOFs), while you are on the trek or at the campsite. There is also the risk of hailstorms, thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Sudden temperature drops and high altitude winds can pose a serious threat. It might even cause your trek to be called off without notice.
Wildlife Encounters: Encounters with dangerous animals from the animal kingdom such as bears, snakes, arthropods, insects can be a threat.
Encounter with different kinds of plants . Touching, eating, or any kind of interaction with a toxic, poisonous, or harmful plant can pose a serious threat too.
Natural Disasters: Landslides, earthquakes, avalanches, whiteouts and other natural disasters can occur in mountainous regions, posing significant risks.
Altitude-Related risks and personal injuries:
AMS , High Altitude Pulmonary Edema (HAPE), High Altitude Cerebral Edema (HACE).
Slips and Falls: Uneven terrain, slippery surfaces, and loose rocks can increase the risk of falls, accidental drownings, and other injuries.
Accidents Involving Equipment: Improper use or malfunction of equipment such as climbing gear or trekking poles can lead to accidents.
Accidents that may cause emotional trauma, disfigurement; temporary or permanent disability, including paralysis.
Injuries Caused by Third Parties: Accidents or injuries caused by other trekkers or individuals in the area.
Exposure to Harmful Elements: Prolonged exposure to the sun, cold, or other elements can cause sunburn, heatstroke, frostbite, dehydration, hypothermia, chilblains, hypoxia or weather-related illnesses.
Medical Emergencies:
Limited Access to Medical Facilities: Remote trekking areas often have limited access to hospitals, clinics, or medical professionals.
Difficulty in Evacuation: Evacuating an injured person from a remote location can be challenging and time-consuming.
Other Risks:
Civil Disturbances or War: Political instability or conflicts in the region can pose security risks.
Terrorism: Terrorist activities can threaten the safety of trekkers.
Social or Labor Unrest: Protests or strikes can disrupt travel plans and create safety concerns.
Equipment Failures: Gear failure or malfunction can lead to accidents or discomfort.
Transportation Issues: Delays, cancellations, or accidents involving transportation can affect the trek.
Unexpected Events: Unforeseen circumstances such as weather changes, road closures, transportation failures or natural disasters can impact the trek.
Diseases: Trekkers may be exposed to diseases or infections prevalent in the region.
By participating in this trek, you acknowledge that:
I am aware of these risks.
I am voluntarily taking part in the activity.
I will follow the safety guidelines provided.
I am responsible for taking care of the equipment I use during the trek.
I understand Indiahikes’ employees are qualified but have difficult jobs to perform. They seek safety, but they are not infallible. No one can predict the risks mentioned with 100% accuracy.
I am responsible for my own safety and well-being.
2. Declaration of My Fitness and Good Health expand accordion
I assume full and complete responsibility for physically preparing for the trek as prescribed in the eligibility criteria of the trek.
Health declaration:
I certify that:
I am in good physical and mental health.
I have no medical conditions that would prevent me from participating in the trek.
I have not been advised against participating by a doctor.
Legal declaration:
I certify that:
I am responsible for my own well-being during the trek.
I assume all risks associated with the trek, known and unknown.
I understand that Indiahikes is not liable for any injuries or losses I may experience.
I understand that Indiahikes is not responsible for any medical expenses I may incur during or after the trek.
3. Compensation for Harm or Loss (Indemnification) expand accordion
I certify that:
I will defend/ reimburse/ pay Indiahikes in case I do anything during the trek that hurts someone else or causes damage to life or property. Be it intentional or by accident. I will pay for any repairs or medical bills that result from my actions.
4. To Follow and Abide by Indiahikes Safety Protocols expand accordion
I understand that there are chances that I may feel the effects of altitude sickness and oxygen deprivation while on this trek. I am aware that the trek leader may deem it unsafe for me to continue trekking at any time, and arrange for me to descend to a lower altitude.
I understand that the trek leader will conduct routine health checks at all camps to measure oxygen saturation, pulse and blood pressure. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to exclude any trekker from climbing higher on the trek without a monetary refund if the trekker's vital readings are below accepted norms for that altitude. These norms are available with Indiahikes trek leaders.
I understand that this is a high altitude trek with rough, rocky and snowy terrain. I understand that Indiahikes reserves the right to turn around a trekker if in the opinion of the trek leader they are unable to complete the itinerary without requiring exclusive assistance. I have realistically self-assessed my fitness and suitability for this trek before registering.
I understand that drinking, smoking and taking any recreational drugs are strictly prohibited on the trek. I understand that I will be sent down from the trek if found using any of it. From there, I will have to exit from the basecamp immediately.
If I am 58 or over 58 years old, I agree to the following:
a. A high-altitude trek, even one that has been classified as an easy trek, puts a lot of pressure on your heart. When you are over a certain age, the risk that comes with the stress can be life-threatening. We have noticed that many trekkers above the age of 58 come with a history of high BP. This shows on the trek. For some of you, it can result in serious complications with the heart. This can be prevented with a simple test before the start of the trek.
b. The Treadmill Test will give all of us a clear picture of whether your cardiovascular system is ready to take on the challenges of the trek. This along with the fitness preparation will give you a higher chance of a successful and safe trek.
c. We believe that everyone must trek but we also believe in trekking safely. We have brought in this protocol to enhance your safety on the trek and to ensure a successful trek.
d. We need you to send us this report within 7 days of registering for the trek If the report shows that you have good cardiovascular health, you can continue with the trek. What you will now need to focus on is the fitness preparation for your trek.
e. On the other hand, if there are concerns with the result of the report, we will get back to you with the recommendation of working on your health before you apply again. In this case, we will refund your trek amount to you.
5. My Voluntary Participation and Execution expand accordion
I have carefully read and understood the provisions and legal consequences of this agreement, and I hereby agree to all of its conditions. I agree that if any portion of this agreement is found to be void or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect.
I understand that in calculating the cost of the trek, Indiahikes has relied on my consent to these terms and their enforceability. Without this agreement, Indiahikes would not be able to offer these services. I agree that the execution of electronic transmission of this agreement shall be deemed execution of the original agreement.
6. Carrying and Submitting Required Formal Documents expand accordion
It is my responsibility to obtain information and have all the necessary documents for my trek/ trip, including passports, visas, and any other required paperwork.
I understand that I may be asked to show the documents during my travel or on the trek by officials. Indiahikes is not responsible for my failure to show the documents required.
Indiahikes is also not responsible for any loss, theft or damage to my travel documents.
I hereby voluntarily provide my Personal ID (latest Aadhaar card or Passport) to Indiahikes for the limited and specific purposes of identity verification, obtaining trek permits, and fulfilling administrative requirements directly related to my participation in the trek. I understand that Indiahikes shall use this information only for the stated purposes and in compliance with applicable laws and guidelines. I acknowledge that Indiahikes is responsible for ensuring the confidentiality and lawful processing of my personal data. I may withdraw this consent at any time before the use of my personal information by providing written notice.
7. The Indiahikes Cancellation Policy expand accordion
I accept the Indiahikes Cancellation Policy as follows:
The Indiahikes Standard Cancellation Policy
8. Indiahikes’ 5 Reasons to Terminate My Trek expand accordion
Smoking, drinking, or consumption of any intoxicating substance is not permitted on an Indiahikes trek. Indiahikes has the right to terminate my trek if I’m found flouting the no drinking/smoking rule anywhere on the trek, including near or anywhere at the base camp, campsites, or Indiahikes premises.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case I am affected by any form of injury or illness that renders me unable to complete the trek.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek in case my lack of fitness affects the average trekking time of the rest of the team.
Indiahikes has the right to send me back from the trek if I am physically ineligible to continue based on the display of blood pressure or oximeter readings beyond the acceptable range.
Indiahikes has the right to immediately terminate my presence on the trek or basecamp in case I display any of the following unacceptable behaviours. They include:
i. Any sexual misconduct towards fellow trekkers, Indiahikes team members, or others
ii. Not adhering to the trek rules (which are laid out for everyone equally) or the trek leaders' instructions
iii. Physically and verbally aggressive/abusive towards fellow trekkers or Indiahikes team members. Which can constitute these actions:
a. If bad words/profanity are used in arguments
b. If threats are made towards Indiahikes team members or any trekker
c. If you scream/shout to express your dissatisfaction
d. If you physically push/shove any trekker
e. If I make religious, political or sexist remarks
iv. Mistreating any of the Indiahikes trekking equipment.
I agree that if my trek is terminated because of any of these reasons, I will not receive the trek completion certificate or a refund of the trek fees. In addition, I will have to bear the cost of a mule/vehicle/guide/porter to come back to the base camp.
Valley Of Flowers - Complete Trek Information
share link Share Link
We have always wanted trekkers to be well-informed before they go on a Himalayan trek . Knowledge is the difference between a safe trek and a dangerous one. It’s also the difference between a wholesome experience and a superficial experience.
Use this section to learn about the Valley of Flowers trek. It has in-depth information about each day of the trek, what to expect, and how you need to prepare for it. Many years of expertise have gone into this content. Trekkers find that extremely useful.
Quick Itinerary
Get your trek plan
toggle accordion
Study this map to know about how does each day looks like on the Valley of Flowers trek.
Day 1
Drive from Rishikesh to Karchi
Drive Distance: 255 km | Drive Duration: 11 hours | Pick up point for Indiahikes trekkers: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Pick up Time: 5.30 am | Location of Indiahikes basecamp: Karchi
Transport will be arranged at 5.15 AM. The cost of the cab will be Rs 1700 (additional 5% GST) per trekker (one-way) one way. You will reach the base camp by 5.00 PM. Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Day 2
Drive from Karchi to Poolna. Trek to Ghangaria
Drive distance: 38 km | Drive Duration: 1.5 hours
Trek distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 5-6 hours Altitude gain: 7,785 ft to 10,520 ft
The cost of this drive is already included in your fee if you have booked Indiahikes Transport for this trek.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes transport, we'll try to accommodate you in the available vehicles for this transfer. However, if that is not possible, we may have to arrange separate vehicles for trekkers who haven't opted for Indiahikes Transport. In that case, trekkers who have arrived at Karchi on their own must share the cost for that transfer which is ₹2,500 per vehicle (to be paid offline directly to the driver), and share it with other trekkers who have not opted Online for transport.
Day 3
Ghangaria to Valley of Flowers and back
Trek distance: 3.7 km each way | Trek Duration: 6 hours | Altitude gain: 10,520 ft to 11,550 ft
A rewarding trek to Valley of Flowers, with flowers blooming on either sides of the trail.
Day 4
Ghangaria to Hemkund Sahib and back
Trek distance: 6 km each way | Trek Duration: 8-9 hours | Altitude gain: 10,520 ft to 14,107 ft
A series of switchbacks continuously climb to Hemkund Sahib. The gurudwara and lake at the top are a wonderful reward for the challenging climb.
Day 5
Trek from Ghangaria to Poolna. Drive to Karchi
Trek distance: 9 km | Trek Duration: 4 hours | Altitude loss: 10,520 ft to 6,215 ft
Drive distance: 38 km | Drive Duration: 1 hour 15 minutes
Descend to Poolna, and then drive to Karchi.
The cost of this drive is already included in your fee if you have booked Indiahikes Transport for this trek.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes transport, we'll try to accommodate you in the available vehicles for this transfer. However, if that is not possible, we may have to arrange separate vehicles for trekkers who haven't opted for Indiahikes Transport. In that case, trekkers must share the cost for that transfer which is ₹2,500 per vehicle (to be paid offline directly to the driver), and share it with other trekkers who have not opted Online for transport.
Day 6
Drive from Karchi to Rishikesh
Drive Distance: 255 km | Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Drop-off Point: Live Free Hostel, Rishikesh | Drop-off Time: 6 pm
The transport cost has to be borne by trekkers. The journey back to Rishikesh costs Rs 1700 (an additional 5% GST) per trekker . Please pre-book your transport through the dashboard before your trek.
Please note: The distance between campsites may vary by 100 meters depending the weather conditions and the route you take. The altitude may also vary by 100 feet for similar reasons.
Important Advisory
Trekking is often subject to last-minute changes due to factors beyond our control, such as weather disturbances or sudden government orders. While we try to offer alternative treks, this may not always be possible. To safeguard yourself against such uncertainties, please follow the advisory below:
➤ Opt for the Indiahikes Shield: In case of last-minute trek suspensions due to external factors, the Indiahikes Shield entitles you to a full refund of your trek fee. Without the Shield, we issue vouchers, as we would have already incurred our operational expenses. Click here to know more about the Indiahikes Shield.
➤ Book Flexible Air Tickets: Even if your trek fee is refunded, the bigger loss is usually from flight tickets. We recommend booking flexible flights so you can reschedule your travel if needed.
How Does Each Day Look
Complete day-wise guides with photographs
toggle accordion
Day 1
Day 2
Day 3
Day 4
Day 5
Day 6
Previous
Next
Day 1 (Pick-up Day): Drive from Rishikesh to Karchi
Drive Duration: 11 hours drive to Karchi. Pick up from Live Free Hotel, Rishikesh at 5:15 am | Drive Distance: 255 km
The base camp for Valley of Flowers is located at Karchi. The drive from Rishikesh to Karchi is a beautiful one. The route winds along the Alakananda River. The road hugs the mountainside and you see forests and valleys of Garhwal below you.
After you cross the village of Pipalkoti, there is a shift in scenery. You suddenly see a stark difference in the landscape when approaching closer to the Greater Himalayan Range.
Watch out for the big mountain of Mt. Dronagiri from the base camp. It is situated a stone's throw from Rini, where the Chipko movement started in India.
Read More
The base camp for Valley of Flowers is located at Karchi. The drive from Rishikesh to Karchi is a beautiful one. The route winds along the Alakananda River. The road hugs the mountainside and you see forests and valleys of Garhwal below you.
After you cross the village of Pipalkoti, there is a shift in scenery. You suddenly see a stark difference in the landscape when approaching closer to the Greater Himalayan Range.
Watch out for the big mountain of Mt. Dronagiri from the base camp. It is situated a stone's throw from Rini, where the Chipko movement started in India.
Day 2 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 2: Karchi to Ghangaria via Poolna
Drive Duration: 1.5 hour | Drive Distance: 38 km
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 9km
Altitude gain: 7,785 ft to 10,520 ft via 6,720 ft
Difficulty: Easy-moderate. Gradual ascent throughout on a well- defined trail
Water sources: Carry 2 litres of water. The water sources along the way are contaminated and not fit for drinking.
Start with cab ride to Poolna from Karchi.
From Poolna trail is well-defined. It is usually full of Sikh pilgrims walking up and down. Notice the cleanliness on the trail despite hundreds treading upon it every day. It’s a heartening and motivating sight. All thanks to volunteers who sweep the trail every day.
The 9 km trek from Poolna to Ghangaria goes all the way along the river. The trail is alternately sunny and shaded. At around the midpoint of the day’s trek, you cross the river and go to the other bank. After this, you no longer trek alongside the river.
Read More
Start with cab ride to Poolna from Karchi.
From Poolna trail is well-defined. It is usually full of Sikh pilgrims walking up and down. Notice the cleanliness on the trail despite hundreds treading upon it every day. It’s a heartening and motivating sight. All thanks to volunteers who sweep the trail every day.
The 9 km trek from Poolna to Ghangaria goes all the way along the river. The trail is alternately sunny and shaded. At around the midpoint of the day’s trek, you cross the river and go to the other bank. After this, you no longer trek alongside the river.
The trek takes 7-8 hours and you approach a tabular land. This is when you know you are close to Ghangaria. Ghangaria has a helipad. Half a kilometre from the helipad is the one-street village of Ghangaria, lined with hotels, restaurants and a Gurudwara. The Gurudwara offers free accommodation and food to all.
go to previous day Day 1 Day 3 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 3: Ghangaria to Valley of Flowers and back
Trek Duration: 6-7 hours | Trek Distance: 3.7 km each way
Altitude gain: 10,520 ft to 11,550 ft and back
Difficulty: Easy. Flat walk in the valley
Water sources: Carry 2 litres of water. You can refill your water bottles from streams that you will find in the Valley, after a couple of hours of trekking.
Leave Ghangaria early to give yourself the whole day to spend at Valley of Flowers. The trail splits in less than a kilometre. There is a gate to buy entry tickets to the valley. Walk inside and notice the small flowering plants springing up on either side. A kilometre into the gate, there is a scenic bridge across a stream gushing below.
Tall rocky mountains rise before you. Notice that the well-laid-out trail has now become a small footway along the side of the valley. The stream flows below you and there are small, hard snow patches by the side. On the trek inside Valley of Flowers, you see very few people around you. This may come across as a big and welcome contrast to the previous day’s trek, where there were hundreds. The scenery has also taken a drastic turn for the better and any direction you turn to looks picture-perfect. Trek along for a couple of kilometres on the flat path and to your right opens up the valley. Cross another rickety bridge and collect water to drink from below.
The entire valley is generally a carpet of colours – green, yellow, red, blue. It is surrounded by mountains with trees at lower levels, brown and grey soil in the middle and bright snow at the top. A bright sunny day will ensure deep blue skies completing the picture and taking it beyond your imagination. The valley is a botanist’s dreamland! One can find flowers, leaves, and buds of various shapes, sizes, and colours, all growing together. Notice various types of bees and insects hovering on these strange flowers.
Read More
Leave Ghangaria early to give yourself the whole day to spend at Valley of Flowers. The trail splits in less than a kilometre. There is a gate to buy entry tickets to the valley. Walk inside and notice the small flowering plants springing up on either side. A kilometre into the gate, there is a scenic bridge across a stream gushing below.
Tall rocky mountains rise before you. Notice that the well-laid-out trail has now become a small footway along the side of the valley. The stream flows below you and there are small, hard snow patches by the side. On the trek inside Valley of Flowers, you see very few people around you. This may come across as a big and welcome contrast to the previous day’s trek, where there were hundreds. The scenery has also taken a drastic turn for the better and any direction you turn to looks picture-perfect. Trek along for a couple of kilometres on the flat path and to your right opens up the valley. Cross another rickety bridge and collect water to drink from below.
The entire valley is generally a carpet of colours – green, yellow, red, blue. It is surrounded by mountains with trees at lower levels, brown and grey soil in the middle and bright snow at the top. A bright sunny day will ensure deep blue skies completing the picture and taking it beyond your imagination. The valley is a botanist’s dreamland! One can find flowers, leaves, and buds of various shapes, sizes, and colours, all growing together. Notice various types of bees and insects hovering on these strange flowers.
Walk further into the valley and you will be engulfed with an amazing scent, which unfortunately cannot be captured but can only be felt. The valley stretches 5-7 km further until it ends with a glacier visible at a distance. The stream flows through the valley. Take off your shoes and dip your feet into them to experience the icy cold water.
Prominent flowers that you will see in July-August include Meadow Geranium, Snake Foil, Hooked Stick Seed, Himalayan Rose, Blue Poppy, River Anemone, White Leaf Hog Foot and Dog Flower. Carry packed lunch from Ghangaria on the Valley of Flowers trek day. There is no food available in the valley. Overnight camping isn’t allowed either. Plan your return along the same path by early afternoon. The afternoon sun falling on the valley from a different direction gives a whole new perspective to the same place you saw in the morning.
go to previous day Day 2 Day 4 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 4: Ghangaria to Hemkund Sahib and back
Trek Duration: 9-10 hours | Trek Distance: 6 km each way
Altitude gain: 10,520 ft to 14,107 ft and back
Difficulty: Moderate-difficult. Steep ascent for about 4 hours to reach Hemkund Sahib and steep descent back.
Water sources: Carry 2 litres of water. You can refill your water bottles from streams that you will find along the way.
Start your day early. The weather can be impulsive in the afternoon and sudden cloud cover and rain can get you stranded if you do not get down on time. The thought of getting up before 5.00 am can be daunting but the Gurudwara makes it easy. Their day starts at 4.00 am with the singing of bhajans .
By 5.00 am, you hear people outside the gate of the Gurudwara chanting in the chorus and the horses being readied to go up to Hemkund Sahib. Get up and grab a hot drink of chai . A poncho (light raincoat) and a trekking pole can be handy on the trek to Hemkund. Pass the deviation to Valley of Flowers. Continue to trek up the steep path slowly but steadily. Spot a pretty waterfall on your right falling through the rock walls on the right. After about 2 hours of walking, you are higher than the tree line and the views begin to get better. Mark the route to Valley of Flowers on the mountain in front of the river gorge. After another hour of slow walking with numerous breaks, you begin to feel reduced oxygen levels in the air. A melting glacier lies on the way. Take generous breaks while climbing up the steep path. These breaks are important as going up very fast could only mean inviting altitude sickness. Do not sit down during these breaks. Sitting down causes your muscles to relax and getting back on track can be very difficult. An hour of stiff climbing brings you to Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara. The lake lies just behind it. The Hemkund Sahib lake remains frozen for six months. Warm yourself in the Gurudwara and have generous helpings of hot tea and khichdi .
Walk around to the other side of Hemkund Lake. It exudes an aura of peace and serenity. It’s crystal clear, undisturbed and reflects the mountains surrounding it. The lake and the Gurudwara in this setting are a sight to watch. Around Hemkund, the Himalayan flower, Brahma Kamal grows abundantly. This flower grows only at heights of 10,000 ft to 15,000 ft. Leave Hemkund by early afternoon. The walk down can be strenuous on the knees and toes. It takes 4- 5 hours to walk down the 6 km.
Read More
Start your day early. The weather can be impulsive in the afternoon and sudden cloud cover and rain can get you stranded if you do not get down on time. The thought of getting up before 5.00 am can be daunting but the Gurudwara makes it easy. Their day starts at 4.00 am with the singing of bhajans .
By 5.00 am, you hear people outside the gate of the Gurudwara chanting in the chorus and the horses being readied to go up to Hemkund Sahib. Get up and grab a hot drink of chai . A poncho (light raincoat) and a trekking pole can be handy on the trek to Hemkund. Pass the deviation to Valley of Flowers. Continue to trek up the steep path slowly but steadily. Spot a pretty waterfall on your right falling through the rock walls on the right. After about 2 hours of walking, you are higher than the tree line and the views begin to get better. Mark the route to Valley of Flowers on the mountain in front of the river gorge. After another hour of slow walking with numerous breaks, you begin to feel reduced oxygen levels in the air. A melting glacier lies on the way. Take generous breaks while climbing up the steep path. These breaks are important as going up very fast could only mean inviting altitude sickness. Do not sit down during these breaks. Sitting down causes your muscles to relax and getting back on track can be very difficult. An hour of stiff climbing brings you to Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara. The lake lies just behind it. The Hemkund Sahib lake remains frozen for six months. Warm yourself in the Gurudwara and have generous helpings of hot tea and khichdi .
Walk around to the other side of Hemkund Lake. It exudes an aura of peace and serenity. It’s crystal clear, undisturbed and reflects the mountains surrounding it. The lake and the Gurudwara in this setting are a sight to watch. Around Hemkund, the Himalayan flower, Brahma Kamal grows abundantly. This flower grows only at heights of 10,000 ft to 15,000 ft. Leave Hemkund by early afternoon. The walk down can be strenuous on the knees and toes. It takes 4- 5 hours to walk down the 6 km.
go to previous day Day 3 Day 5 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 5: Ghangaria to Karchi via Poolna
Drive Duration: 1 hour 15 minutes | Drive Distance: 35 km
Trek Duration: 5-6 hours | Trek Distance: 9km
Altitude loss: 10,520 ft to 6,215 ft via 6,720 ft
Difficulty: Easy-moderate. Gradual ascent throughout on a well- defined trail
The trek back to Poolna starts after breakfast. It is along the same route that you took on the first day of your trek. From Poolna, drive back to the Indiahikes base at Karchi.
Read More
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
The trek back to Poolna starts after breakfast. It is along the same route that you took on the first day of your trek. From Poolna, drive back to the Indiahikes base at Karchi.
go to previous day Day 4 Day 6 go to next day
Previous
Next
Day 6: Karchi to Rishikesh
Drive Duration: 9-10 hours | Drive Distance: 252 km
Drive down to Rishikesh.
Important note: Since Valley of Flowers is a monsoon trek, there are possibilities of roadblocks due to landslides. Account for this by adding a buffer day to your travel plan.
Read More
go to previous day Day 5
Drive down to Rishikesh.
Important note: Since Valley of Flowers is a monsoon trek, there are possibilities of roadblocks due to landslides. Account for this by adding a buffer day to your travel plan.
go to previous day Day 5
How Difficult Is the Valley of Flowers Trek
What to Expect in terms of Terrain, Altitude, Weather and Safety
toggle accordion
Moderate
Suitable for Fit Beginners
You will cover a total of around 34 km in four trekking days during which you will gain approximately 6,665 ft (7,785 ft to 14,107 ft). Every day will include ascents and descents on uneven trails.
Terrain:
The trail on Day 4, from Ghangaria to Hemkund Sahib and back is steep and challenging, with a continuous ascent that will test your endurance. The final stretch is especially tough, with a stiff incline and a melting glacier on the way.
The descent on Day 4, though faster, is equally demanding on the knees and toes due to the steep gradient.
Please note: If you are trekking with Indiahikes, our Trek Leaders and Technical Guides will provide you with all necessary guidance, support, and technical gear such as micro spikes, gaiters, helmets, ropes, etc. wherever required.
Weather :
Rainfall, lasting for hours, can change the entire trek dynamic.
On the Valley of Flowers Trek, you trek beside rivers and on makeshift bridges in multiple places. These can get flooded in case if extreme rain.
Please note: The safety of our trekkers is paramount. Our technical team, in conjunction with the Trek Leader, constantly monitors the weather conditions and makes informed decisions about proceeding with or aborting the trek. If the weather deteriorates, the team may need to turn back from any campsite to ensure the safety of all trekkers.
Altitude :
On the first day of your trek from Poolna to Ghangria, you gain more than 3000 ft in elevation.
On Day 4, the ascent from Ghangaria to Hemkund Sahib is again steep and rapid, with an altitude gain of nearly 4,000 ft, increasing the risk of AMS.
At altitudes above 10,000 ft, the chances of being hit by Acute Mountain Sickness are real. Altitude sickness can happen to anybody - first-time trekkers as well as experienced trekkers. Fitness helps in making your trek easier. But do not forget that even a fit person climbing too high too soon runs an equal risk of developing AMS. Here’s a Complete guide to Acute Mountains Sickness, HAPE and HACE .
Please Note: The Indiahikes team is equipped with high-altitude medical kits, oxygen cylinders, and stretchers to handle any altitude-related emergencies.
Emergency Exits:
The trail is well-laid with easy exits from Ghangaria.
Closest Hospital to the Valley of Flowers Trek:
The closest Primary Healthcare Center is in Joshimath, just 15 kms by road from the Govind Ghat roadhead. However, for any serious concern, heading to Dehradun is the best option. Dehradun is a 7-8 hr drive from Joshimath.
The Indiahikes team will ensure your safety throughout the journey. However, we believe that safety is a shared responsibility. We need your active participation and attention to safety protocols to ensure a safe and successful trek.
Please inform your Trek Leader about any pre-existing medical conditions or health concerns, no matter how minor they may seem. This will enable us to take the necessary precautions and ensure your safety throughout the trek.
Best Time To Do Valley of Flowers Trek
Time your trek well
toggle accordion
Valley Of Flowers In July
It is lush green. The flowers are just beginning to bloom. Peak flowering season starts after mid-July. There are a few old snow bridges and some melting snow patches. Expect a riot of colours. Rains pick up after mid-July. The valley is least crowded in July. Making it the perfect time to go on this trek if you are someone who appreciates trekking on a less crowded trail.
But there won’t be many flowers until mid-July. Since the trek climbs to such a high altitude (~14,000 ft), it retains snow even in July. Only later in July, does the rain wash off the snow.
Monsoon also starts setting in in July. But it doesn’t rain much in the first half. Monsoon gains momentum in the second half of July. Snow too starts getting washed off by then.
Hence, to conclude:
If you go in the first half of July, you will find greenery, snow, and the least number of crowds.
If you go in the second half of July, you will find greenery, blooming flowers, and very little crowd.
Valley Of Flowers In August
In August, monsoon clouds hang low and wash over the entire valley. Maximum flowers in the valley bloom during this period. While you get a good amount of rain at Govindghat during this time, at the higher altitudes it turns into a drizzle.
Tip : Watch out for the precious Brahmakamal as you climb to Hemkund Sahib. This beautiful flower only grows around the altitude of 14,000 feet so is a rare sighting.
The only downside of trekking in August is the huge number of crowds that fill the trail. If you time your trek on weekdays, you will find fewer trekkers. However, the trail is completely filled on holidays.
Valley Of Flowers In September
Flowers begin wilting by the second half of August and by September, very few flowers are left . But there’s a different kind of beauty to this month of retreating monsoon. Skies start clearing up and you witness some clear mountain views.
But September is also the time when the crowd in the valley starts thickening with a flood of pilgrims. During this month, pilgrims flock to visit the Gurudwara of Hemkund Sahib .
Note : During peak monsoon, make it a point to visit the Valley of Flowers in the first half of the day and be back by 2 pm. Post that, the intensity of the rain increases. And that makes it risky to cross the rickety bridges over Lakshman Ganga.
Is trekking in monsoon safe?
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations, we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed, keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
How to Plan Your Travel for the Valley of Flowers Trek
Flight, Train, Bus and All Essential Travel Details
toggle accordion
Karchi is your base camp for the Valley of Flowers Trek. Karchi is a small hamlet in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand. One among four small villages in this area. It is around 9-10 hours by road from Rishikesh .
On Day 1, our Indiahikes team will pick you up at 5.15 am from Live Free Hostel .
Arrive in Rishikesh by Day Zero , which is one day before Day 1 on the itinerary. For example, if the Day 1 of your trek is 25th August, book your tickets to reach Rishikesh by 24th August.
Here is a detailed guide to help you plan your travel to Rishikesh:
How to reach Rishikesh? Rishikesh does not have its own airport or train station. The easiest way to access Rishikesh is to:
Fly to Jolly Grant Airport in Dehradun , which is about 1-hour away from Rishikesh
Fly to Delhi and take a train to Haridwar (30 km from Rishikesh )
Fly to Delhi and take an overnight bus to Rishikesh.
How to reach Rishikesh by Flight:
Pro Tip: If the direct flights to Dehradun are too costly, fly to Delhi and take the overnight bus to Rishikesh.
Flying to Delhi may be a lot cheaper than getting to Dehradun. However, If you notice the difference in air ticket prices between Delhi and Dehradun is less than Rs 1000 then book directly to Dehradun. The rest and shorter travel time are worth the difference.
How to reach Rishikesh by Train:
We have listed down the most reliable trains that run between Delhi and Haridwar. From Haridwar, it is just 30 km to Rishikesh.
Pro Tip: If you are reaching Rishikesh by train, make sure you reach one day before your pick-up from Rishikesh. You must arrive at Rishikesh on Day 0 (one day before your trek starts) and not on Day 1. It will give you much needed rest before you start the long drive to Karchi the next day.
How to plan your return journey from Rishikesh:
You can retrace the same journey back from Rishikesh to your city. But keep the following points in mind:
Book your return ticket only after 8-9 PM on the last day of your trek. However, we recommend that you add a buffer and travel the next day to safeguard your travel plans from unforeseen delays on mountain routes.
If you’re taking an overnight bus to Delhi, keep enough buffer time to reach the airport. We recommend flights only after 11.00 AM.
If you have not opted for Indiahikes Transport and want to travel to Karchi on your own:
There are direct buses from Dehradun or Rishikesh to Joshimath. From Joshimath, you can find shared jeeps that go to Karchi from the Tapovan Taxi Stand.
Option 1: Direct Bus from Dehradun to Joshimath and Shared Jeep to Karchi
There is one direct bus from Dehradun which leaves at 5:30 AM.
You can book seats on this bus online through the UTC Pathik App
Arrives at Joshimath at 5:30 PM on the same day.
From Joshimath to Karchi is a 17 km journey. Shared vehicles charge around Rs. 100 per person while booking a cab will cost somewhere around Rs. 700
Option 2: Direct Bus from Rishikesh to Joshimath and Shared Jeep to Karchi
There is one direct bus from Rishikesh which leaves at 5 AM.
Arrives at Joshimath at around 4 PM on the same day.
However, the availability and timing of the bus can sometimes be dependent on prior schedules, so it’s recommended to confirm the bus's arrival the previous day.
From Joshimath to Karchi is a 17 km journey. Shared vehicles charge around Rs. 100 per person while booking a cab will cost somewhere around Rs. 700
What is the Indiahikes Camping Experience Like ?
Stay, Food, Toilet and Safety on an Indiahikes Trek
toggle accordion
If you have signed up for a trek, or are planning to, your first questions are likely the basics:
Where will I sleep? What food will I eat? What about toilets? How safe is it?
You have probably come here looking for those answers. And we get that. We will walk you through exactly what to expect when it comes to your stay, food, and toilet facilities on a trek with Indiahikes.
You will also see that this experience is much more than just logistics.
Because when you register for a trek with Indiahikes, along with signing up for a few days in the mountains, you’re signing up for a thoughtful, ethical, and sustainable outdoor experience. It reconnects you with nature, gently introduces you to minimalism, and helps you feel completely at home in the outdoors.
Here’s everything you need to know about your camping experience on an Indiahikes trek — where you’ll be accommodated, the food you’ll eat, your sleeping arrangements, and how toilets and solid waste are managed in the outdoors.
Click Here for Complete Information on Our Camping Experience
Stay Options for Valley of Flowers Trek
Budget and Premium Stay Options that Trekkers Recommend
toggle accordion
Trekkers often ask us for hotel recommendations before or after their treks. Finding a good place using online listings can be tedious and tricky. So, through our network of trekkers and trek leaders, we have put together the best hotel recommendations in the major cities near our treks.
These are tried-and-tested recommendations—places we trust for comfort, cleanliness, and convenience. They’re also located near town centers and your pick-up points. Whether you’re looking for a budget-friendly stay or something a little more premium, you’ll find an option that suits your needs below.
Click Here to See Our Hotel Recommendations
What To Pack For Your Valley of Flowers Trek
Things you must take on the trek
toggle accordion
Loading packing checklist...
How to Get Fit for the Valley of Flowers Trek
A 6-Week Plan to Help You Get Trek-Fit for the Valley of Flowers Trek
toggle accordion
Most people don't realise this until it's too late: there's no such thing as a difficult or easy trek. A trek is difficult if you aren't fit. It's easy if you're fit.
On a trek, your lungs and legs do the real work. You need to build your stamina and endurance. You need to train your core, calves, glutes, quadriceps, and hamstrings.
Walking, jogging or running is the best routine for this .
It works on the same muscles you use while trekking—your calves, glutes, quads and hamstrings. It also mimics your foot movement so you are better prepared for sudden twists and turns they may go through on uneven terrain.
Here’s Why Running is the Best Exercise To Get Fit for a Trek
Fitness Target
To do the Valley of Flowers Trek comfortably, you must be able to walk, jog or run 5 km in under 35 minutes. This is the minimum recommended fitness level that you must aim for.
To reach any fitness target, there are two things you must work on:
Cardiovascular Endurance
Muscle Strength
If you are looking for guidance, we've put together a comprehensive training programme for you. This has been designed by two of Indiahikes' most senior team members — Prathima Chhabria and Gautam Singh. Between them, they've run close to 10,000 km over the last two decades.
They have compiled years of hard-earned experience into this one downloadable document . Follow this, and you'll be trek-ready in 6 weeks.
Click here to Download our Free 6-Week Training Plan
Frequently Asked Questions
1. Why get fit before your trek?
If you're not fit, you won't enjoy your trek. Simple as that. You'll struggle. You'll fall behind. And you'll miss out on the transformative experience we've designed for you.
But here's what most people don't think about — when you lag behind, you pull your entire team back. Your Trek Leader has to slow everyone down. The trekkers who trained hard and showed up prepared won't take this lightly. Nobody wants to miss a summit or a breathtaking viewpoint because someone didn't train.
Here’s What Happens When you Don’t Get Fit Before Your Trek
2. What is the fitness approval process at Indiahikes?
Track your runs on Strava, Nike Run Club, or any similar fitness app.
Take 3 screenshots of your runs and upload them to your Indiahikes Dashboard.
Make sure you upload these screenshots 15 to 20 days before your trek date. We want to see that you are being consistent in your preparation.
Your screenshots must demonstrate that you are meeting the fitness criteria for your trek.
Here’s What the Fitness Approval Process at Indiahikes Looks Like
3. When can your fitness records get rejected?
Your fitness records will be rejected for one of two reasons:
You haven't uploaded your 3 screenshots to your dashboard.
Your runs don't meet your trek's fitness criteria at least 3 times in the past month.
Check both before you submit. It'll save you the back and forth.
4. What happens if your fitness records get rejected?
You can still trek. But your Trek Leader and Slope Manager will be informed about your fitness levels in advance. If you fall behind the group by 45 minutes and are visibly struggling, your Trek Leader may send you back. That's a call none of us want to make. But it is essential for your and the entire team’s safety.
5. Do children need fitness approvals before a trek?
Children below 14 years are not required to submit fitness records. However, parents must ensure that children remain physically active and prepared for the trek.
Frequently Asked Questions
Get your questions answered here
toggle accordion
Is Valley of Flowers a good first Himalayan trek? expand accordion
Yes, the Valley of Flowers trek is a good first-time trek. You get to experience high-altitude trekking. Be sure to work on your fitness before the trek.
How long is the Valley of Flowers trek? expand accordion
The Valley of Flowers Trek is 38 km long. And you cover this distance in 4 days where you trek approximately for 6 hours every day. You also need to keep two days for travelling to and from the base camp of the Valley of Flowers trek.
The trek begins from Govindghat, which is an 11-hour drive from Rishikesh. From Govindghat, you trek to Ghangria. This will be yours on trek base. Each day you will trek for about 6 hours, and return to Ghangria.
During the trek, you will witness a wide array of things – from blooming flowers, gushing rivers, tall mountainscapes in front of you, delicate bridges, stone paths, lakes, and much more.
Is trekking in monsoon safe? expand accordion
Yes, monsoon treks are usually safe. At Indiahikes, we only run those treks in monsoon that are safely navigable in the rains.
We keep a close watch on weather patterns and trail conditions every single day. In unforeseen situations we take necessary action — whether it’s rerouting, rescheduling, or even cancelling the trek if absolutely needed keeping your safety in mind. It is always our first priority.
That said, the monsoon brings its own moods — not just on the trails, but also on the way to get there. Landslides and roadblocks are more frequent during this season, and that can lead to traffic jams and delays en route to the base camp. It’s heartbreaking when you miss out on a beautiful experience simply because you got stuck on the way.
So we always recommend two things:
* Reach your pickup town a day earlier if possible. It gives you a buffer against unpredictable road conditions.
* Keep a buffer day after your trek before you plan your return journey. The mountains can often move at their own pace.
Trekking in the monsoon is magical. The forests are lush, the streams are full, and the trails come alive. But to truly enjoy it, give yourself a little breathing room. A little extra time can make all the difference between a stressful journey and a memorable adventure.
How fit do I need to be for the Valley of Flowers trek? expand accordion
A Himalayan trek like Valley of Flowers requires a good fitness level. It has long high altitude climbs and walks daily. As a measure of your fitness, we need you to:
Run at least 5 km in 35 minutes before your trek. It's a minimum mandatory requirement if you wish to trek with us. Once you get confirmed for your trek, we will diligently follow up on your fitness routine. Our team will also assist in putting you through a fitness plan. It will ultimately help you have a safe trek experience.
How to Get Fit for Your Trek
Can I opt for a mule-ride to the Hemkund Sahib Lake if am not able to trek ? expand accordion
While there are options like mules and dolis (where porters carry pilgrims in a basket) available on the trail from Ghangria to Hemkund Sahib, these are not in alignment with the spirit of trekking we follow at Indiahikes. More importantly, when you choose these options, we are unable to ensure your safety on the trail. It puts not just your safety at risk, but also affects the safety and coordination of the entire team. Which is why, if you’re trekking with Indiahikes, these options will not be available to you. We urge you to be mentally and physically prepared to complete the trek on your own — with the support of your Trek Leader and team.
How is the accommodation on the trek? expand accordion
Karchi Campus: Stay in Swiss tents at the exclusive Indiahikes Community Campus. The campus features the vibrant Urjino Café, Crosstrek Store, as well as dedicated breakout areas for relaxation and mingling.
On the Trek : Stay in lodges along the trail. No camping is allowed on the trail.
Important Note: Accommodation on the Valley of Flowers trek is strictly gender-based. Special requests cannot be accommodated.
I am more than 62 years old. Can I do this trek? expand accordion
Yes you can!
If you are above the age of 58 years, you’ll need to submit a Treadmill Test (not older than 12 months) within a week of completing your trek registration. Apart from this, you should also be able to jog 5 km in 35 minutes.
Which city is known as Valley of Flowers? expand accordion
Valley of Flowers is not a city, but a National Park located in the North Chamoli district of Uttarakhand around the Pushpavati river. It was recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2002 for its rich biodiversity. Later it became a part of the Nanda Devi Biosphere.
The main attraction of the Valley Of Flowers is its flowers. There are more than 500 varieties of flowers that bloom during the monsoon season. These even include the rare Himalayan Brahmakamal.
How many trekkers are in a single group? expand accordion
On the Valley of Flowers trek, we usually take around 20- 23 trekkers in total.
Which is the nearest ATM to the Valley of Flowers Trek? expand accordion
Joshimath is the last town en route to Govidghat where you’ll find ATMs to make some cash withdrawals. All major private and public sector banks have their ATMs and some even have branches in Joshimath. However, cash runs quickly at the Joshimath ATMs. Hence, Rishikesh is your best bet to make last-minute cash withdrawals.
We advise you to carry around Rs 4-5k in cash to pay for your transport to the basecamp, for rental gear deposit and personal expenses en route to the basecamp. If you are planning to visit Badrinath after the trek, we advise you to carry more.
If you’re an Indiahikes trekker, there is no major need for cash as once you arrive at the base camp . All meals, accommodations, permits, and related expenses are taken care of by Indiahikes.
How many months in advance should I book the Valley of Flowers Trek? expand accordion
Being a UNESCO World heritage site, Valley of Flower is a popular trek not only in India but also the world. We advise you to book this trek 3-4 months in advance.
Is offloading available for Valley of Flowers? expand accordion
Having more footprint through porters or mules on any trail isn’t good for the ecosystem. This is why, at Indiahikes, we do not encourage offloading. A trekker carries his/her own backpack in the true spirit of trekking.
But if — due to a medical condition — you are unable to carry your own backpack, you may offload your backpack.
The cost of offloading on Valley of Flowers is Rs 800 (without tax) for the entire trek.
Find details about the offloading process here.
Treks by Categories
Treks by Month
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Treks by Difficulty
Easy
Easy - Moderate
Moderate
Moderate - Difficult
Difficult
Treks by Experience
Family Treks
Stargazing Treks
Senior Treks
Adventure Therapy
Summer Camps
Treks by Season
Spring
Summer
Monsoon
Autumn
Winter
Treks by Duration
2 days
3 days
4 days
5 days
6 days
7+ days
Treks by Region
Uttarakhand
Himachal Pradesh
Lahaul and Spiti
Jammu & Kashmir
Sikkim
West Bengal
Chhattisgarh
Madhya Pradesh
Karnataka
Tamil Nadu
Nepal
Georgia
Indonesia
Indiahikes is Officially Partnered with IMF
Central Govt. Employees can avail Special Casual Leave on all Indian treks. Find out how.
Quick Links
Sign up for our Weekly Mailer
Gift a Trek
Join the Indiahikes Trekking Club (InTrek)
Volunteer for Aarogya Seva
Read our Cancellation Policy
Follow Us On
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
080 468 01269
Mon to Fri - 9.30 AM to 7.30 PM
Sat and Sun - 9.30 AM to 6.30 PM
Bengaluru Office
139, Defence Colony Road, Defence Layout, Sahakar Nagar, Bengaluru, Karnataka - 560092
Dehradun Office
Mohabbewala, Titan Road, Near Titan Factory, Chandramani Khalsa Dehradun - 248002
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
© 2026 Indiahikes Private Limited
All images are copyrighted by their respective authors.